legal interest, the assurance is void though the penalty be not incurred.1

To make a contract void for usury there must have been a loan. Therefore, if an acceptor discount his own acceptances at a premium beyond legal interest, that is not usury; for the acceptor does not advance his own money to another, but merely pays the debt to another before it is due. "It is," says Lord Ellenborough, "an improper practice, but not usury."

<sup>1</sup> Fisher r. Beasley, 1 Doug., 235. See Sergeant Williams' note to Ferral v. Shaen, 1 W. Saund., 295, where the cases are collected.

<sup>2</sup> Harvey v. Archbold, 3 B. & C., 626 (10 E. C. L. R.); 5 D. & Ry., 500, s. c. A contract to take a loan of money at more than legal interest is usurious, though no illegal interest is actually taken upon it: Clark v. Badgely, 16 N. J. L., 233.

<sup>3</sup> Barclay v. Wamsley, 4 East, 55. Manhattan Co. v. Osgood, 15 John. (N. Y.), 162; King v. Johnson, 3 McCord (S. C.), 365; Churchill v. Suter, 4 Mass., 156; Bridge v. Hubbard, 15 Id., 96; Wycoff v. Loughhead, 2 Dall. (Penn.), 92; Mosgrove v. Gibbs, 1 Id., 216; Lloyd v. Keach, 2 Conn., 175; Powell v. Waters, 8 Cow. (N. Y.), 669; Nichols v. Fearson, 7 Pet. (U. S.), 103; Cram v. Hendricks, 7 Wend. (N. Y.), 569; French v. Grindle, 15 Me., 163: Freeman v. Brittin, 2 Harrison, 191; Mazuran v. Mead, 21 Wend. (N. Y.), 255; Ballinger v. Edwards, 4 Ired. (N. C.), Eq., 449; Haleman v. Hobson, 8 Humph. (Tenn.), 127. The purchase of a bill at any price is not usurious; but the purchase must be complete, so as to enable the purchaser to bring suit on it. A bill not accepted is not of this character: McLean v. Lafayette Bank, 3 McLean, 15 Me., 587. When an indorsee takes a bill or note with the indersement or guaranty of the inderser and advances thereupon less than the real value of the bill or note, the transaction is in effect a loan between the indorser and indorsee, and usurious: McElwee r. Collins. 4 D. & B. (N. C.), 209. If a note made for the purpose of raising money is discounted at a higher premium than the legal rate of interest, and none of the parties whose names are on it can, as between themselves, maintain a suit on the note when it becomes due, provided it had not been discounted, then such discounting of the note is usurious, for it is then that it first exists as a contract: Knights v. Putnam, 3 Pick., 184; Sauerwein v. Brumer, 1 H. & G. (Md.), 477; Metcalf v. Watkins, 1 Port. (Ala.), 57; Gouch v. Massey, 4 Humph. (Tenn.), 374; Acby v. Rapelye, 1 Hill (N. Y.), 9; Belden v. Lamb, 17 Conn., 441; Dowe v. Schutt, 2 Den. (N. Y.), 621. It is otherwise, however, if the purchaser is ignorant of the character of the note: Whitworth v. Adams, 5 Rand., 333; Ramsey v. Clark, 4 Humph. (Tenn.), 244; Creed v. Stevens, 4 Whart. (Penn.), 223; Long v. Gantley, 4 Dev. & Batt., 313; Hayes v. Walker, 7 Blackford, 540; May v. Campbell, 7 Humph. (Tenn.), 450; Dickerman v. Day, 31 Iowa, 444. The taking of interest in advance upon the discount of a note is not usury: Bank of Utica v. Phillips, 3 Wend. (N. Y.), 408; Thornton v. Bank of Washington, 3 Pet. (U.S.), 40; State Bank v. Hunter, 1 Dev. (N. C.), 100; McGill v. Ware, 4 Ill., 21; Parker v. Cousins, 2 Gratt. (Va.), 372. Nor taking interest for both the first and last day: Crump v. Nicholas, 5 Leigh. (Va.), 251; State Bank v. Cowan, 8 Leigh. (Va.), 238. As to the use Rowlett's Tables of Interest, which consider three hundred and sixty days as a year, see State Bank v. Cowan, 8 Leigh. (Va.), 238; Planter's Bank v. Snodgrass, 4 How. (Miss.), 573; Parker v. Cousins, 2 Gratt. (Va.), 372; Bank of Utica v. Wager, 8 Cow. (N. Y.), 398.

\*But the ordinary transaction of discounting a bill or [\*315] note is a lending within the statute.] The party discounting does, in fact, lend money on interest, to be repaid either by the person receiving or by some other party to the bill, at a certain prefixed period. The general rule of law is that if the interest be retained at the time of the loan, or be stipulated to be paid before it falls regularly due, the contract is usurious.1 But in favor of trade, an acception is allowed in the case of discount of bills. The interest is then allowed to be retained at the time of the loan, or, in other words, interest may be and is always charged, not on the sum actually advanced, but on the sum for which the bill is made payable.2 Thus, if a bill for 100l. at twelve months' date is discounted at five per cent., the sum actually paid is 95%, and the 51. discount received is, in fact, interest at the rate of more than 51. 5s. 3d. on the loan. It is evident that the longer the date of the bill, the greater the amount of the interest retained, the less the actual advance, and the higher the rate of interest on the advance; so that if a bill at twenty years' date were discounted at five per cent., the interest would annihilate the principal. This exception is, therefore, restrained to discounts in the ordinary course of trade, where the excess of charge above the legal rate is fairly referable to the trouble and expense to which the merchant or banker discounting is exposed. And the discounting of a bill at a very long date, as, for \*example, two or three years, [\*316] seems of itself a suspicious circumstance; and, if it be done as an artifice to obtain more than legal interest, the transaction will be usurious, and the bill and any substituted security will be void, in the hands of the discounter, against all parties.4

If a bill or note be given on a usurious contract, but for a pre-

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> Barnes r. Worlich, Noy, 41; Cro. Jac., 25; Yel., 30; Moore, 644, s. c. Contra, Young v. Miller, 7 B. Monroe, 540.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup> The day on which a note is discounted is to be excluded in the computation of interest; but a day's interest has accrued at any time of the next day: Bank of Burlington v. Burkee, 1 Vt., 403.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>3</sup> Marsh v. Martindale, 3 Bos. & Pul., 154.

<sup>4</sup> Marsh v. Martindale, 3 Bos. & Pul., 154. When the charge of exchange will or will not be usurious: Andrews v. Pond, 13 Pet. (U. S.), 65; Merritt v. Benton, 10 Wend. (N. Y.), 116; Cayuga Bank v. Hunt, 2 Hill (N. Y.), 635; Comm'l Bank v. Nolen, 7 How. (Miss.), 503; McLean v. Bank, 3 McLean (U. S. C. C.), 587; Holford v. Blatchford, 2 Sandf., Ch. (N. Y.), 149; Pilcher v. Banks, 7 B. Mon. (Ky.), 548.

existing legal debt, the debt is not extinguished, though the security is void.1

If the excessive charge be in any case no more than a fair remuneration for trouble and expense, it will not be usury. Thus, where a man took promissory notes to a bank to be discounted. and on being asked how he would have the money, said, partly in eash, partly in account, and partly in bills on London, some at three, some at seven, and some at thirty days' sight; and the banker accordingly discounted the notes at five per cent. in that way, deducting discount for the whole time that the notes had to run, but making no allowance for the time which must clapse before the bills on London became payable, though the cash could not be said to be advanced by him till the bills on London fell due, and though in consequence he received more than legal interest for his advances, the transaction was held not to be usurious, for, the mode of pay. ment being suggested by the other party, it could not have been devised by him as a screen for a corrupt loan. And it was held that the interest which he gained on the bills on Loudon might be considered as a compensation for the trouble and expense of paying the money there; that the discount and remittance were separate transactions.2 But where the substituted bill was not given at the particular request of the parties applying for discount, and was itself discounted, Lord Kenyon held the original discount usurious.3 A merchant, banker or other person, may, in addition to the dis-[\*317] count, take a reasonable \*and customary sum for remitting the note or bill for payment, and other incidental expenses. So he may take a commission for accepting or drawing bills, whether the bills be payable in the same place or not.<sup>5</sup> No

Phillips v. Cockayne, 3 Camp., 119. A. being about to purchase an estate, B. agreed to lend him money upon it, and before the conveyance from the vendor to A. was completed, on receiving the then title deeds, advanced the money; afterwards it was agreed between A. and B. that A. should pay usurious interest on the money advanced; and after this agreement, the conveyance from the vendor to A. was by A. hunded over to B., A. having become bankrupt; held that his assignees could not in trover recover the latter deed, because by the first agreement, untainted by usury, B. acquired a right to it: Wood v. Grimwood, 10 B. & C., 679 (21 E. C. L. R.).

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> Hammett v. Yea, 1 B & P., 144.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup> Matthews v. Griffiths, Peake, 200.

Winch v. Fenn, cited in Auriol v. Thomas, 2 T. R., 52; Ex parte Jones, 17 Ves., 332; Baynes v. Frey, 15 Ves., 120; Masterman v. Cowrie, 3 Camp., 488.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>4</sup> Masterman v. Cowrie, 3 Camp., 488.

precise rate for commission in such cases is fixed by law, but the usual rate sanctioned by the decisions is 5s. per cent. Upon a long and complicated account a banker has been allowed to charge one-half per cent.; but in another case, where a person in general business, but not a banker, charged 7s. 6d. per cent. for discounting bills, and gave no evidence of having been put to any extraordirary trouble or expense, Lord Ellenborough thought the charge usurious. Whether in any case the charge for commission be but a fair remuneration for trouble and expense, or a mere artifice for charging illegal interest, is a question of fact for the jury.

To constitute usury, there must, further, be a corrupt intention, not, perhaps, to evade the statute, for a man may not know that there is such a law; but his ignorance of the law here, as in all other cases, is no excuse, for it is one which (as Selden observes) every one might make and nobody could tell how to refute him; but there must be a corrupt intention to take exorbitant interest. Thus the old cases show that if illegal interest be reserved by mistake, as by an error in the computation of time, it is not usury. Accordingly, where A. was indebted to the plaintiff in a bond executed in St. Kitts, conditioned for the payment of 6000l. and six per cent. interest, and it was agreed that the principal should be paid in two bills of exchange at long dates, which were drawn in

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> Brook v. Middleton, 1 Camp., 445.

Corrie, 3 Camp., 488. A compensation exceeding the lawful rate of interest for obtaining money at the bank on one's own security for the use of another is not usury, unless it is so unreasonable and extravagant as to show that it was a cover for usury, and whether it is so or not is a question for the jury: Hutchinson v. Hosmer, 2 Conn, 341. As to when the charge of commission will be usurious, see Bartlett v. Williams, 1 Pick. (Mass.), 288; Trotter v. Curtis, 19 John. (N. Y.), 160; Ramsdell v. Morgan, 16 Wend. (N. Y.), 574; McKesson v. McDowell, 4 D. & B. (N. C., 120; Saydam v. Westfall, 4 Hill (N. Y.), 211; Harger v. McCullough, 2 Den. (N. Y.), 119; Dry Dock Co. v. Trust Co., 3 Sandf., Ch. (N. Y.), 215. The bona fide sale of one's credit or guarantee is not usurious, though it exceed the legal rate of interest and is not connected with a loan; Ketchum v. Barber, 4 Hill (N. Y.), 224; Moore v. Howland, 4 Den. (N. Y.), 264.

Buckley v. Guilbank, Cro. Jac., 677; Nevison v. Whitley, Cro. Car., 501. Childers v. Dean, 4 Rand. (Va.), 406; Maine Bank v. Butts, 9 Mass., 49; Gibson v. Stearns, 3 N. H., 185; Bank of Utica v. Smalley, 2 Cow. (N. Y.), 770; Duvall v. Farmers' Bank, 7 G. & J. (Md.), 44. Parting with depreciated paper at par and charging for the same the legal rate of interest does not constitute usury: U. S. Bank v. Waggener, 9 Pet. (U. S.), 378; see Caton v. Shaw, 2 H. & G. (Md.), 13; U. S. Bank v. Owen, 2 Pet. (U. S.), 537; Sizer v. Miller, 1 Hill, 227. Contra, Bondurant v. Bank, 8 S. & M. (Miss.), 533; Cook v. Bank, Id., 543.

favor of the plaintiff for the principal and interest which would be due at the time they were payable, the plaintiff's agent computing the interest by mistake still at six per cent., and the bond was then cancelled, Mansfield, C. J., held that the action on the bills might [\*318] clearly be maintained for the sum \*bona fide due; as the excess in the amount of the bill had arisen from a mere mistake, and no intention to take usury could at any rate be imputed to the plaintiff himself. A. was indebted to B. in 80%. and gave him a promissory note for 871.38., payable by four quarterly instalments (being the amount of the principal and legal interest, with a clause that in case default should be made in payment of any one instalment the whole sum should become payable. The court held that this was not a stipulation for usury, but for a penalty, and that A. was entitled to recover the whole sum on default.2 Where a broker was employed to get a bill discounted. which he did upon an agreement to reserve to himself 10s. per cent. commission, as the party advancing the money was no party to this agreement, and had no intention that more than legal interest should be charged, it was held that the discount was not usurious.3

The contract must be for repayment of the principal at all event; for if the principal be put in hazard it is not usury. "If I lend 100% to have 120% at the year's end upon a casualty, if the casualty goes to the interest only and not to the principal it is usury; for the party is sure to have the principal again come what will come; but if the interest and principal are both in hazard it is not then usury." Hence the purchase of an annuity with a clause for redemption by the granter, though on terms never so exorbitant, is not usury. And where the lender becomes a partner with the borrower by deed in the borrower's trade, and is to receive profits thereout in addition to the interest to a certain amount, at all events this may be a contract of partnership and not a usurious loan. But if the lender do not profess to be a partner, and is nevertheless to receive a portion of the profits in addition to the interest, it is an usurious loan, for though the lender thereby so far puts his prin-

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> Glasfurd v. Laing, 1 Camp., 149.

<sup>2</sup> Wells v. Girling, 4 Moore, 78; 1 B. & B., 447 (5 E. C. L. R.); Gow 21, s. c.

<sup>3</sup> Dagnall v. Wigley, 11 East, 43.

<sup>4</sup> Roberts v. Trenayne, Cro. Jac., 507; Chesterfield v. Jansen, 1 Wils., 286.

<sup>5</sup> Gilpin v Enderby, 5 B. & Al., 954 (7 E C. L. R.); 1 D. & Ry., 570, s. c. 464