[\*85] \*for the honor of the drawer where the payee is a fictitious person, and treat the bill as payable to bearer.1

If a blank be left for the payee's name, a bona fide holder may fill it up with his own name and recover against the drawer.

ficient evidence of this; and three of the judges thought the plaintiff might recover on a count which stated that the bill was drawn payable to bearer. Minet v. Gibson, 3. T. R., 481, put this point directly in issue, and the unanimous opinion of the court was that where the circumstance of the payer being a fictitious person is known to the acceptor the bill is in effect payable to bearer. Soon after the Court of C. P., laid down the same doctrine in Collis v. Emett, 1 H. Bl., 313. This decision was acquiesced in; but Minet v. Gibson was carried up to the House of Lords, 1 H. Bl., 569. The opinion of the judges being then taken, Eyre, C. B. (p. 618), and Heath, J. (619), were for reversing the judgment of the court below, and Lord Thurlow, C., coincided with them (p. 625), but the other judges thinking otherwise, judgment was affirmed: Parl Cas., 8vo., ii., 48. The last case upon the subject reported is Gibson v. Hunter, 2 H. Bl., 187, 288, which came before the House of Peers upon a demurrer to evidence, and in which it was held that in an action on a bill of this sort against the acceptor to show that he was aware of the payee being fictitions, evidence is admissible of the circumstances under which he had accepted other bills payable to fictitious persons. Vide Tuft's case, Leach, Cro. Law, 159. Phillips v. Im Thurm, 18 C. B., N. S. 694 (114 E. C. L. R.). A note payable to a fictitious person or order is treated as a note payable to bearer: Scott v. Barker, 5 N. Y. Supp., 753; Little v. Thomas, 30 Miss., 122; Bowles v. Lambert, 54 Ill., 239; Lyon v. Marshall, 11 Barb. (N. Y.), 248; and the maker of such a note by negotiating it transfers title to it without indorsement and it is presumed that the note came into the possession of the holder with the names of all the indorsers on it and prima facie he is treated as a holder for value: Scott v. Barker, Ante; See also Bank v. Dang., 6 Bosw. (N. Y.), 202; Plets v. Johnson 3 Hill (N. Y.), 112; Maniort v. Roberts, 4 E. D. S. (N. Y.), 83. But this is subject to the exception, that the fact that the bill is made payable to a fictitious person, is known to the indorser or acceptor: Forbes v. Espy, 21 Ohio St., 483. As against the maker, the note or bill is good, in the hands of a bona fide holder: Irving Nat. Bk. v. Alley, 79 N. Y., 536; Lane v. Krekle, 22 Iowa, 401 Fernsworth v. Drake, 11 Ind., 103; Blodett v. Jackson. 40 N. H., 2 c.

Philips v. Im Thurm, 18 C. B., N. S., 694; (114 E. C. L. R.); and see Philips v. Im Thurm, L. R., 1 C. P., 463; 35 L. J., 220, s. c. A note payable to a company, having no existence legal or de facto, is a note to a fictitious payee, and any bona fide holder may sue on it: Farnsworth v. Drake, 11 Ind., 101. When a note is made payable to a firm and no such firm exists, the person to whom it was given may indorse the name of the firm: Blodgett v. Jackson, 40 N. H., 21. To entitle the holder of a note, payable to a fictitious payee to recover it, it must appear affirmatively that the holder was ignorant thereof at the time he received the note: Maniort v. Roberts, 4 E. D. S. (N. Y., C. P.), 83. An instrument for the payment of money not payable to any particular person or to bearer is not negotiable; and a memorandum made by a payee on the back of a note in these words: "Mr. A., pay on within \$750," did not authorize a recovery on the money counts by the holder against the payee: Douglass v. Wilkeson, 6 Wend. (N. Y.), 637.

<sup>2</sup> Cruchley v. Clarence, 2 M. & Sel., 90; Attwood v. Griffin, R. & M., 425; 2. C. & P., 368 (12 E. C. L. R.). When an acceptance in the name of a firm was given by one partner without authority, a blank being left for the drawer's name, a holder

But, in order thus to charge the acceptor, the holder must show that he had authority from the drawer to insert his own name as payee.1

If the name of the payee do not purport to be the name of any person, as where a note was made payable to ship Fortune or bearer,

it is a note payable to bearer simply.2

Unless a bill or note be payable to order or to bearer, it is not negotiable, though still a valid security as between the original parties; but, if it be, notwithstanding, assigned by the payee, he is chargeable at the suit of an indorsee.

A bill or note may be made payable to A. B. or order, or to A. B. or bearer, or to the drawer's own order, or to bearer generally.

who suspected the above facts was held not entitled to fill in his own name as drawer and sue on the bill: Hogarth v. Lathan, L. R., 3 Q. B. D., 643.

- (Crutchly v. Mann, 5 Taunt., 529 (E. C. L. R.); 1 Marsh, 29, s. c. And see Awde v. Dixon, 6 Exch., 869.
  - 2 Grant v. Vaughan, 3 Burr., 1516.
- <sup>3</sup> Smith v. Kendall, 6 T.R., 123; 1 Esp., 231, s. c.; Rex v. Box, 6 Taunt., 325 (1 E. C. L. R.); Russ v. Ry., 306, s. c. See post, chapter on Transfer.

Fernon r. Farmer, 1 Harr. (N. J.), 32; Hackney r. Jones, 3 Humph. (Tenn.) 612; Reed r. Murphy, 1 Kelly, 236; Yingling r. Kohlhass, 18 Maryland, 148. A bill or note made payable "to the order" of the plaintiff need not be indersed by him before suit brought. It is the same as if made payable to the plaintiff or order: Huling r. Hugg, 1 W. & S. (Penn.), 418. A note payable "to the bearer A." is not a note payable to bearer, and is not negotiable: Warren r. Scott, 32 Iowa, 22.

- 4 Hill v. Lewis, 1 Salk., 133. See further on this subject the chapter on Transfer.
  - <sup>5</sup> As to bills payable to bearer on demand, see the last chapter.
- 6 Drawn payable to the drawer's order, it is payable to himself: Smith r. M'Clure, 5 East, 476; 2 Smith, 443, s. c. So also held in America. Byles on Bills, 6th American edition, p. 132. It is not essential to the validity of a bill of exchange that it should be payable to order or bearer or be expressed to be for value received: Mehlberg v. Fisher, 24 Wis., 607. Such an instrument always implies a personal credit. not limited or applicable to particular circumstances and events which cannot be known to the holder of the bill in the general course of its negotiation. When there is any obscurity, uncertainty or ambiguity in the body of the order, so that it may be doubtful whether they may be construed to make the payment of the order conditional, contingent or limited by a particular fund, or as a mere direction as to the fund out of which the drawee may be reimbursed, it is the duty of the drawee in his acceptance to clearly express such condition or qualification. In Redman r. Adams, 51 Me., 433, the words of the clause were "and charge the same against whatever amount may be due from my share of fish caught on board schooner Morning Star, for the following year, 1860." The acceptance was general, and the Court held that the instrument was a bill of exchange. In Corbet v. Clark, 45 Wis., 403, an order as follows:

If made payable to order it is assignable by indorsement; if made payable to bearer it is assignable by mere delivery.

The sum for which a bill is made payable is usually written in

"Greenbush, Wis., Sept. 20, 1875.

"Mr. I. B. Clark & Co.:

"Please pay C. A. Corbet one hundred and eighty three dollars and  $\frac{100}{100}$  and take the same out of our share of the grain," and accepted generally was held a valid bill of exchange.

Where the clause merely indicates the account to which the transaction is to be carried, or the fund from which the drawee is to reimburse himself, and the acceptance is general, it does not affect the qualidity of the order as a bill of exchange Kelly v. Mayor, 4 Hill. (N. Y.), 263; Early v. McCart, 2 Dana. (Ky.), 414. In Spurgin v. McPheeters, 42 Ind., 527, the order was: "Pay to Jesse McPheeters or order the sum of one hundred and nineteen dollars on said bill of 17 in. lumber, and oblige," etc. The answer set up that the order was given for past indebtedness: that the drawers were insolvent; that the drawee had a contract with the drawers for the delivery of 11 in. lumber on the cars and to be paid for when 30,000 feet of such lumber was so delivered, and not till then; the said lumber had not been so delivered; that the order was drawn and accepted with reference to said contract: and that all the facts were within the knowledge of the payee at the time of the acceptance, and it was understood at the time that the order was not to be paid until tle performance of said contract. The acceptance was simply, "I accept." The action was by the payee against the acceptor. On demurrer to the answer, it was held that the acceptance being general, it could not be contradicted or explained by a contemporaneous verbal agreement; that the consideration of the bill could not be inquired into as between the acceptor and the payee; and that showing that it was given for an antecedent debt, or as an accommodation, was no defence. In Sylvester v. Staples, 41 Me., 496, the order was: "Pay Ansel T. Sylvester fifty-five dollars for work done on logs," etc. The acceptance was "I accept the written order to pay when due." On the trial of the action, by the payee against the acceptor, the defendant offered to show by parol evidence that the words "to pay when due" were understood by the parties and agreed to mean, when the acceptor should have funds in his hands belonging to the drawer, "for work done on logs," and that at the time of the acceptance there was nothing so due, and had not since been due; and the offer was refused, and the evidence rejected, on the ground that the acceptance was general, and the words could have no other construction than to mean to pay when the order was due, or at the maturity of the order, and that parol evidence was not admissible to contradict or explain either the order or acceptance. The objection was made that the order had no words of negotiability, as in this case, and was therefore no bill of exchange, and that it was open to explanation and defences of this character. It was held that the order was a bill of exchange, and that the exclusion of the evidence offered to show any contemporaneous agreement between the parties contradicting or varying the terms of the order or the acceptance was correct, and that the words of the acceptance must be taken most strongly against the acceptor. In Gerard v. La Costa, 1 Dall. (U.S.), 194, it is held that the order in in that case, not having words of negotiability, was not assignable so as to allow the holder to sue upon it; but it is also held that it was a bill of exchange, and when accepted, bound all parties to it absolutely. In Cook v. Saterlee, 6 Cow. (N. Y.), 108, the order was upon the drawee to pay and take up the note of the drawer in the possession of the payee; and it was held that it was not a bill of exchange, but a

the body of the bill in words at length, the better to prevent alteration; and, if there be any difference between the sum in the body and the sum superscribed, the sum mentioned in the body will be taken to be that for which the bill is made payable; when the figures \*express a larger sum than the words, evidence to show that the difference arose from an accidental omission of words is inadmissible. We have already seen that an omission in the body will be aided by the superscription.

An inaccurate but intelligible statement of the sum payable will not vitiate. Thus, an order or promise to pay so many "pound," instead of "pounds," is a good bill or note. A bill for "twenty-five, seventeen shillings and three," is a bill for 25%. 17s. 3d. The word sterling means sterling in that part of the United Kingdom where the bill is payable.

All negotiable bills, notes or drafts for any sum under 20s. were made void by 48 Geo. 3, c. 88, s. 2; and the third section imposed on the utterers and negotiators of such notes, bills or drafts a penalty of 5l. to 20l., at the discretion of a magistrate, to be recovered in a summary way.

Negotiable bills and notes for more than 20s. and less than 5l. (except checks on bankers)<sup>1</sup> were also formerly void unless they specified the name and abode of the payee, were attested by a subscribing witness, bore date at or before the time of issue, and were made payable within twenty-one days after date, but not to bearer

mere engagement, and in declaring upon it the payee must show performance. In Atkinson v. Manks, 1 Cow. (N. Y.), 691, the order was drawn for the delivery of goods in the hands of the drawee, and of course was no bill of exchange. See also Munger v. Shannon, 61 N. Y., 251; Kemble v. Lull, 3 McLean (U. S.), 272; Jackman v. Bowkel, 4 Met. (Mass.), 235; McMenony v. Ferrers, 3 John (N. Y.), 71; Weston v. Barker, 12 Id., 276.

- <sup>1</sup> Marius 138; Beawes 193; Saunderson v. Piper, 5 Bing. N. C., 425 (35 E. C. L. R.): 7 Scott, 408, 8. c.
  - <sup>2</sup> Saunderson v. Piper, 5 Bing. N. C., 425 (35 E. C. L. R.); 7 Scott, 408, s. c.
  - <sup>3</sup> Elliot's case, 2 East, P. C., 951; 1 Leach, 175, s. c.
  - 4 Rex v. Port. Bayley, 12, 6th ed.
- <sup>5</sup> Phipps v. Tanner, 5 C. & P., 488 (24 E. C. L. R.); Booth v. Wallace, 2 Root. (Conn.), 247.

Where a bill was drawn, and the drawee omitted to make the usual prefix of the dollar mark to the figures in the margin, and also omitted the word "dollars" in the body of the writing, the bill was held to be valid: Williamson v. Smith, 1 Cold. (Tenn.), 1.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>6</sup> Taylor v. Booth, 1 C. & P., 286 (12 E. C. L. R.).

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>7</sup> 7 Geo. 4, c. 6, s. 9, and 17 & 13 Vict. c. 83, s. 9; and see ante, chapter on CHECKS.

on demand. And such an instrument could not be negotiated after the time limited for its payment.1

The 17 Geo. 3, c. 30, was repealed by the 3 Geo. 4, c. 70, but was revived by the 7 Geo. 4, c. 6, s. 1. The latter act provided, however, that nothing therein contained should extend to any draft drawn by a man on his own banker for money held by that banker to the use of the drawer. By sec. 3 of the same act, a penalty of 20% is imposed on issuing any promissory note payable to bearer on demand for less than 5%.

The 9 Geo. 4, c. 65, s. 1, prohibits the circulation of all negotiable notes or bills under 5l. or on which less than 5l. shall remain undischarged, payable to bearer on demand, and which were made or purport to be made, in \*Scotland, or Ireland, or elsewhere, out of England, under the penalty of 20l., to be recovered in a summary way. By sec. 4 these provisions do not extend to drafts on bankers.

By the 23 & 24 Vict. c. 111, s. 19, drafts for less than 208, drawn by a man on his own banker for money held by the banker to or for the use of the drawer, are exempted from the above restrictions.

And, lastly, by the 26 and 27 Vict. c. 105, the 17 Geo. 3, c. 30, is temporarily (i.e. till 31st December, 1879, 41 & 42 Vict., c. 70) repealed in toto, and so much of any other act as prohibits or imposes any penalty with respect to bills or notes under 5l. except promissory notes payable to bearer on demand. As to the latter, therefore, the 48 Geo. 3, c. 88, s. 2, the 7 Geo. 4, c. 6, s. 3, and the 9 Geo. 4, c. 65, s. 1, are still in force.

Until the act of 3 & 4 Will. 4, c. 83, s. 2, no bills or notes for any sum under 50l. could be issued or made payable to any corporation or co-partnership consisting of more than six members, within sixty-five miles of London.<sup>2</sup>

There are some old cases tending to show that the words ralue received are an essential part of a bill, but it is now well settled that they are not at all material.

<sup>1 17</sup> Geo. 3, c. 30; 7 Geo. 4, c. 6; 9 Geo. 4, c. 65, s. 1; 17 & 18 Vict., c. 83, s. 9.

<sup>2 1</sup> Geo. 4, c. 46, s. 2. See now the 7 & 8 Vict., c. 32.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>8</sup> Cramlington v. Evans, 1 Show. 5; Vin. Ab. Bills of Exch. G., 2.

<sup>4</sup> White v. Ledwich, Bayley 40, 6th ed.; 4 Doug., 427, s. c.; Grant v. Da Costa, 3 M. & S., 351; and see Popplewell v. Wilson, 1 Stra., 264, and infra, note. The words "value received" are not necessary in a bill of exchange or other negotiable instru-

It has been laid down1 that "to entitle the holder of an inland bill or note for the payment of 20% or upwards, to recover interest and damages against the drawer and indorser, in default of acceptance or payment, it shall contain the words 'value received."" But it is conceived that this opinion is unfounded. It seems to rest on the assumption that a protest is necessary for this purpose, and that the statutes of Will. 3 and Anne do not authorize or direct a protest, except the bill be expressed to be made for value received. But it has been decided that the 8th section of 3 & 4 Anne, c. 9, makes a protest unnecessary for this purpose; and, even if it were necessary under these statutes, in bills where those words are expressed, it would not be necessary where they are not; for, upon a careful perusal of both statutes, it will appear \*that they [\*88] only apply to bills expressed to be for value received; and the 6th section of the 3 & 4 Anne distinctly declares that a profest shall not be necessary, unless the words "value received" appear on the face of the bill; thus leaving bills where these words are not as at common law; and at common law no inland bill need be protested, in order to charge the drawer with interest and damages.4 For this purpose, therefore (if the statutes made any difference), a bill would be more readily effectual without these words than with them.

It was once doubted whether an action of debt would lie on a bill, unless the consideration were expressed; but it has been decided that debt would lie although the consideration were not expressed.

The words "value received" are ambiguous, where the bill is drawn payable to a third person; for they may mean either value received by the drawer of the payee, or by the acceptor of the

ment: Benjamin r. Fillman, 2 McLean (U. S., 66), 213; Townsend r. Derby, 3 Met. (Mass.), 363; Hubble r. Fogartie, 3 Rich. (S. C.), 413. A paper directed to certain persons requesting them to pay a specified sum to a person named, and charge the same to the account of the drawer, and dated and signed, is a bill of exchange, although it is neither made payable to order or bearer, nor has the words "value received," nor is made payable at a day certain, or at a particular place: Kendall r. Galvin, 15 Me., 131; see Bourne r. Ward, 51 Id., 191.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> Chitty, 67. <sup>2</sup> 9 and 10 Will. 3, c. 17; 3 & 4 Anne, c. 9, s. 4.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>3</sup> Windle .r Andrews, 2 B. & Al., 696; 2 Stark., 425 3 (E. C. L. R.), s. c.

<sup>4</sup> Per Bayley, J., 2 B. & A., 701.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>5</sup> Bishop v. Young, 2 B. & P., 78: Priddy v. Henbry, 3 D. & R., 165; 1 B. & C. 674, s. c. (8 E. C. L. R.).

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>6</sup> Hatch v. Trays; Watson v. Kightly, 11 Ad. & E., 702 (39 E. C. L. R.); 3 Per. & Dav., 408, s. c.

drawer. But the first is the more probable interpretation; for it is more natural "that the party who draws the bill should inform the drawee of a fact which he does not know, than of one of which he must be well aware."

If, however, the bill is drawn payable to the drawer's own order, the words "value received" must mean received by the acceptor of the drawer; and on such a bill, if the declaration state that it was for value received by the drawer it will be a variance." "Value received," in a note, means received by the maker of the payee.

Though the nature of particulars of the consideration appear on the bill or note, it was not necessary to state it in the declaration, or it might be stated generally as value received. "The defendant," says Maule, J., "may prove that the note was given for a different consideration, or without any consideration at all."

\*But it has been held that the defendant will not be allowed to contradict his written admission on the note, of the nature of the consideration. Where a note was given by an administratrix and expressed to be "for value received by my late husband," she was not allowed to show that the note was given only as an indemnity, and that the payee had not been damnified.

Without the drawer's signature, a bill payable "to my order," though accepted, is of no force," either as a bill of exchange or as a promissory note.8

- <sup>1</sup> Per Lord Ellenborough, in Grant v. Da Costa, 3 M. & Sel., 351.
- <sup>2</sup> Highmore v. Primrose, 5 M. & S., 65.
- \* Clayton v. Gosling, 5 B. & C., 361 (11 E. C. L. R.); 8 D. & R., 110.
- 4 Coombs v. Ingram, 4 D. & R., 211; Bond v. Stockdale, 7 D. & R., 140.
- 5 Abbott v. Hendrick, 1 M. & G., 796 (39 E. C. L. R.); 2 Scott, N. R., 183, s. c. Where the note on the face of it purported to be given for "value received in Pennance shares, pursuant to annexed contract," it was held unneccessary to put in any contract: Fox v. Frith, Car. & M., 502 (41 E. C. L. R.).
- 6 Ridout v. Bristow, 1 C. & J., 231; 1 Tyr., 84, s. c., and see Edwards v. Jones, 2 M. & W., 414; 5 Dowl., 585; 7 C. & P., 633, s. c. (32 E. C. L. R.). A note reciting that it is "for value received." and "in consideration of love and affection" imports a valuable consideration: Cotton v. Graham, 84 Ky., 672. As between the original parties to a note, the consideration may be inquired into: Willson v. Ellsworth, 25 Neb., 246; Rice v. Howland, 147 Mass., 407; Monson v. Tripp, 81 Me., 24; and if it is shown that there was no consideration, or that it has failed, a recovery will be defeated: Chenault v. Bush, 84 Ky., 528; McKenzie v. Wimberly, 86 Ala., 195; Cooper v. King, 73 Iowa, 136.
- <sup>7</sup> Stoessiger v. South E. Railway Co., 3 E. & B., 553 (77 E. C. L. R.); Goldsmid v. Hampton, 27 L. J., C. P., 286; 5 C. B., N.S., 94, 8. c. (94 E. C. L. R.).;
- 8 M'Call v. Taylor, 34 L. J., C. P., 365; May v. Miller, 27 Ala., 515; Tivis v. Young, 1 Met. (Ky.), 187.

The signature of the drawer or maker of a note or bill is usually subscribed in the right-hand corner; but it is sufficient if written in any other part. Thus, "I, J. S., promise to pay," has been held a sufficient signature of a promissory note. A man who cannot write may sign a bill by his mark.

An allegation in pleading that a party made his bill or note was sufficient, without alleging that he signed it, for making implies signing.

If a deed be first executed, and then written or filled up, the deed is void; but it is otherwise with a bill of exchange. For, if a stamped paper be signed, leaving blanks for the date, sum, time when payable and name of the drawee, the drawer will be chargeable for any sum afterwards inserted within the amount warranted by the stamp. It is a letter of credit for an indefinite but not unlimited sum.

A bill of exchange, being in its original a letter, should be properly addressed to the drawee. But where a bill \*was made payable "at No. 1 Wilmot Street, opposite the Lamb, Bethnal Green, London," without mentioning the drawee's name, and the defendant accepted it, he was not allowed to make the objection. But a bill cannot be addressed to one man and accepted

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> Taylor r. Dobbins, 1 Stra., 399; Saunderson r. Jackson, 2 B. & P., 239;

George v. Surry, 1 M. & M., 516. One signed a bill and opposite his name at the other corner where witnesses usually sign, but without the word witness above, another signed, held not sufficient prima facie that he signed as maker: Steininger v. Hoch, 3 Wright (Penn.), 263. It is immaterial on what part of a note the maker's signature is placed, so that he signs it as original maker: Schmidt v. Schmaelter, 45 Mo., 502.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> Elliott v. Cowper, 1 Stra., 609; 2 Ld. Raym., 1376, s. c.; 8 Mol., 307; Erskine v. Murray, 2 Ld. Raym., 1542; 1 Barn., 88, s. c.

<sup>4</sup> Com. Dig. Fait. (A.), 1.

b Collis r. Emmett, 1 H. Bl., 313; Russell v. Langstaffe, 2 Doug., 496; Snaith v. Mingay, 1 M. & S., 87; Leslie v. Hastings, 1 M. & R., 119; Molloy v. Delves, 7 Bing., 429 (20 E. C. L. R.); 5 M. & P., 275; 4 C. & P., 492 (19 E. C. L. R.), s. c.; Barker v. Sterne, 9 Exch., 684; but see Hogarth v. Latham, L. R., 3 Q. B. D., 643. Between the original parties the consideration of a bill or note can always be inquired into; and it would practically abolish this rule, and lead to great oppression and injustice, if the maker or drawer were held to be estopped by any mere statement on the face of the paper as to the character of the consideration: Ryberg v. Snell. 2 Wash. (U. S., C. C.), 291; Lawrence v. The Stonington Bank, 6 Conn., 461; Parish v. Stone, 11 Pick. (Mass.), 198; Slade v. Halsted, 7 Cow. (N. Y.), 322; Pearson v. Pearson, 7 John. (N. Y.), 26; Barnet v. Offerman, 7 Watts. (Penn.), 130.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>6</sup> Peto r. Reynolds, 9 Exch., 410; 11 Exch., 418, in error, 8. C.

Gray v. Milner, 8 Taunt., 739 (4 E. C. L. R.); 3 Moore, 90, s. c. The omission of

by another. A bill directed to A., or in his absence to B., being accepted by A., may be declared on without taking notice of B. If the word at precede the drawee's name, whether inserted ignorantly or fraudulently, the instrument is still a bill of exchange. A bill may be directed to the drawer himself, though it is, in that case, rather a note than a bill.

the name of the drawee at the foot of a bill does not vitiate it. The acceptance supplies the defect, and is an admission by the acceptor that he is the person in. tended: Wheeler r. Webster, 1 E. D. S. (N. Y., C. P.), 1. Where a note is signed and delivered with a blank left for the sum payable, though the first holder is restricted as to the amount to be inserted, yet, if the note comes into the hands of another, who, without notice of the restriction, fills the blank with a larger sum, the obligor will be bound by it: Bank of Commonwealth v. Curry, 2 Dana. (Ky.), 142. A person signing his name on a blank paper and delivering it to another authorizes him to fill up the blank with any sum: Bank of Limestone v. Penick, 5 Mon., (Ky.), 25; M'Arthur v. M'Leod, 6 Jones (N. C.), L., 475; Jones v. Shelbyville Ins. Co., 1 Met., (Mass.), 58. If a person signs a note with a blank date for another's accommodation, he authorizes the other to fill up the date as he may see fit: Androscoggin Bank v. Kimball, 10 Cush. (Mass.), 373. The signer of a blank note as surety is responsible for any sum for which it may be filled up by the principal, though for a sum exceeding that which he authorized, if the holder took it without notice; Fullerton v. Sturges, 4 Ohio St., 529. Where a blank was left for the name of an acceptor, and the bill in this state, and with an indorser on it, was handed to a third person, who indorsed it for the accommodation of the drawer and indorser, it was held that the legal intendment of such a transaction was that the blank was to be filled by the name of another person as acceptor, and that the erasure of the name of the prior indorser and its insertion as acceptor was in fraud of the rights of the last indorser: Mahone v. The Central Bank, 17 Ga., 111. An indorsement on a note or bill, without sum, date or time of payment, will bind the inderser to pay any sum at any time which the person to whom the indorser intrusts it chooses to insert: Michigan Ins. Co. v. Leavenworth, 3 Vt., 11.

- <sup>1</sup> Davis v. Clark, 13 L. J., Q. B., 305; 6 Q. B., 16 (51 E. C. L. R.), s. c.
- <sup>2</sup> Anon., 12 Mod., 447.
- <sup>3</sup> Shuttleworth r. Stephens, 1 Camp., 407; Rex v. Hunter, R. & R. C. C., 511; Allan r. Mawson, 4 Camp., 115.
- \* Block v. Bell, 1 M. & Rob., 149; Starke v. Cheeseman, Carth., 509; Dehers v. Harriott, 1 Show., 163; Robinson v. Bland, 2 Burr., 1077; Jocelyn v. Laserre, Fort., 252; see Davis v. Clarke, 6 Q. B., 16 (51 E. C. L. R.) It is not necessary to constitute a bill of exchange that there should be three distinct parties to it. A bill drawn by a party upon himself is a bill of exchange in the hands of an indorsee: Randolph v. Parish, 9 Port. (Ala.), 76. A general request in writing to pay money to the drawer's own order is a bill of exchange, which the drawer may make payable to himself by an indorsement and notice to the acceptor before it is due: Rice v. Hogan, 8 Dana (Ky.), 133. It is not necessary that the various parties to a negotiable instrument should be different persons in order to render it a bill of exchange: Wildes v. Savage, 1 Story (U. S. C. C.), 22. An order drawn by the president of a corporation on the treasurer, payable on demand, may be declared on when dishonored as a bill of exchange: Wetumpka & Coosa Railroad v. Bingham, 5 Ala., 657; Hasey v. White Pigeon Beet Sugar Co., 1 Don-

If the drawer intends that the bill should be payable at a particular place, he may insert such a direction. Without the words "only and not elsewhere," appended to such direction, the acceptance will be general, within 1 & 2 Geo. 4, c. 78, so as to charge the acceptor. The drawer himself cannot be charged, unless the hill have been presented at the place where the drawer himself made it payable. This statute does not apply to promissory notes; and, therefore, if any place of payment be mentioned in the body of a note, it is part of the contract. The place of payment must be described in the declaration, and a presentment there is essential in order to charge the maker or any other party. But, where the place of payment is merely stated in a memorandum at the foot or in the margin of the note, by way of direction, it need not be noticed in pleading, and presentment there, though it is sufficient, is not essential.

glas, 193. Such a bill is the same, in legal effect, as a promissory note; it imports a promise to pay on demand, and an action may be maintained upon it without proof of a demand of payment from the treasurer of the corporation: Ibid.; Fairchild r. Ogdensburg Railroad Co., 15 N. Y., 337; Lyell v. Supervisors, 6 M'Lean (U. S. C. C.), 446; Dennis v. Table Co., 10 Cal., 369. A draft by an agent of a corporation on the corporation is not a bill of exchange: Mobley v. Clark, 28 Barb. (N. Y.), 390. An order drawn by a corporation on its own treasurer is an acknowledgment of debt by the corporation, but it must be presented for payment before suit: Marion Railroad Co. r. Hodge, 9 Ind., 163. A county auditor's order is the promissory note of the county, and negotiable: Commissioners r. Day, 19 Ind., 450. An order on a town treasurer to pay F. or bearer on demand has all the elements of negotiable paper: Dalrymple v. Whitingham, 26 Vt., 345; Bull v. Sims, 23 N. Y., 570. The general current of the cases, however, is that county and township warrants or orders are not negotiable, or entitled to the privileges or subject to the rules of commercial paper. They are in fact only payable out of a particular fund: Dyer v. Covington, 7 Harris (Penn.), 200; Allison v. Juniata Connty, 14 Wright (Penn.), 351: Bayergue v. San Francisco, 1 McAl. (U. S. C. C.), 175; Dana v. San Francisco, 19 Cal., 486; Sturtevant v. Liberty, 46 Me., 457; Snyder Township v. Bovaird, 122 Penn. St., 442; Santa Cruz Co. Bk. v. Bartlett, 78 Cal., 86. A school order is not a negotiable instrument: Eliakspear v. Smith, 77 (11 E. C. L.) Cal., 638.

<sup>1</sup> Selby v. Eden, 3 Bing., 611 (118 E. C. L.); 11 Moore, 511, s. c.; Fayle v. Bird, 6 B. & C., 531 9 Dowl. & R., 639.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup> Gibbs. v. Mather, in error, 8 Bing., 214(21 E. C. L.); 1 M. & Scott 387, s. c.; 2 C. & J., 254, s. c.; Hodge v. Fillis, 3 Camp., 463.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>3</sup> Sanderson v. Bowes, 14 East, 500; Roche v. Campbell, 3 Camp., 247.

Fife v. Round, 1861 (qu. reported).

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>5</sup> Price v. Mitchell, 4 Camp., 200; Exon v. Russell, 4 M. & S., 506; Williams v. Waring, 10 B. & C., 2 (21 E. C. L. R.); 5 M & R., 9 s. c. But in Hardy v. Woodroffe, 2 Stark., 319 (3 E. C. L. R.), and in Sproule v. Legg, 3 Stark., 156, Lord Tenterden held that the note might be described as made payable at a place mentioned in the memorandum only.

"But where the whole note was printed (except the names, dates and sum), and a place of payment was also printed at the bottom of the note, Lord Ellenborough held that a special presentment at this particular place was necessary." If the drawer of a bill makes it payable at his own house, that circumstance is evidence of its being an accommodation bill.

The 7 Geo. 4, c. 6, s. 10, enacts that every promissory note under 20%, payable to bearer on demand, must be made payable at the place where issued, but may be made payable at other places also.

Bills or notes drawn by co-partnerships or corporations of more than six persons must, by 7 Geo. 4, c. 46, specify the place of payment, and that place must not be in London or within sixty-five miles thereof, unless in case of a bill for 50l. and upwards, drawn payable at some period after date or sight.<sup>3</sup> But this restriction, as to making the bills payable in London, is now removed by 3 & 4, Will. 4., c. 83, s. 2. And the restriction is further relaxed by 7 & 8 Vict., c. 32, s. 26.

Notes of the branches of the Bank of England are payable at the bank in London; but none of their notes are payable at a branch bank, unless specially made payable at such branch.

The direction to place to account is unnecessary.5

A bill is sometimes directed to be paid "as per advice;" sometimes "without further advice;" sometimes "with or without further advice;" and sometimes, and more commonly, without any of these words. In the first case it is said the drawee is not justified in paying without further advice.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> Trecothick v. Edwin, 1 Stark., 468 (2 E. C. L. R.).

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup> Sharp v. Bailey, 8 B. & C., 44 (15 E. C. L. R.); 4 M. & R., 4, 8. c.

<sup>8 7</sup> Geo., 4, c. 46, 8: 1.

<sup>43 &</sup>amp; 4 Will. 4, c. 98, s. 6, which they must now be if issued there; see p. 72.

<sup>· 6</sup> Laing v. Barclay, 1 B. & C., 398 (8 E. C. L. R.); 2 D. & R., 530, s. c.

<sup>6</sup> Chitty, 162, 9th ed.

## OF AMBIGUOUS, CONDITIONAL, AND OTHERWISE IRREGULAR IN-STRUMENTS.

| Note payable to the Maker,  |       | •   | . 92 | Period of Payment may be uncertain      |    |
|-----------------------------|-------|-----|------|-----------------------------------------|----|
| Fanivocal Instruments,      |       | •   | . 92 | if inevitable,                          | 97 |
| Rills and Notes must be for | Pay   | mer | it   | Where several Makers or several Pay-    |    |
| of a Sum of Money and       | l for | tha | it   | ees are respectively liable or entitled |    |
| only, · · ·                 |       | •   | . 94 | in the alternative,                     | 97 |
| And for Money in Specie,    |       |     | . 94 | Must not be made payable out of a       |    |
| And for a Sum certain,      | •     | •   | . 95 | particular Fund,                        | 98 |
| And for Payment of it,      | •     | •   | . 95 | Irregular Bill or Note may be an        |    |
| Must not Suspend Payment    | on a  | Cor | 1-   | Agreement,                              | 98 |
|                             |       |     |      | Coupons and Script,                     | 98 |
|                             |       |     | }    | Letters of Credit and Circular notes,.  | 99 |

A NOTE cannot of course be made by a man to himself without more. Neither can it be made to himself and another man.<sup>2</sup>

But a note made payable to the maker's order becomes, in legal effect, when indorsed in blank, a note payable to bearer; and when specially indorsed, a note payable to the indorsee's order.

<sup>1</sup> As to the contracting words in promissory notes, see chapter ii.

See Moffatt v. Van Milligen, 2 B. & P., 124, n.; Mainwaring v. Newman, Ibid. 120; and see Teague v. Hubbard, 8 B. & C., 345 (15 E. C. L. R.) It was formerly a doubt whether a note promising to pay to the maker's order, or to the maker or order, be a note within the statute. Such a note was sued on in Richards v. Macey, 1 4 M. & W., 484. It should on principle seem, when indersed by the maker in blank, to be in legal effect a note payable to bearer. So decided by the Court of C. P. since these observations were written: Browne v. De Winton, 17 L. J., C. P., 281; 6 C. B., 335 (60 E. C. L. R.), s. c.; see ante, chapter iv. A bill of exchange drawn and accepted by the same parties is in strictness rather a promissory note, though capable of being treated as a bill: Williams v. Ayers, L. R., 3 Ap. Ca., 133.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>3</sup> Browne v. De Winton, 17 L. J., C. P., 280; 6 C. B., 336 (60 E. C. L. R.), s. c.

Gay v. Lander, 17 L. J., C. P., 287; 6 C. B., 336 (60 E. C. L. R.), s. c. A note made payable to the maker's own order cannot pass by mere delivery, but must be indersed by the maker: Smalley v. Wight, 41 Me., 442. Contra, Central Bank v. Lang, 1 Bos. (N. Y.), 202. Until indersed, the note is a nullity: Wilder v. De Wolf, 21 Ill., 190; Main v. Hilton, 54 Cal., 110; Miller v. Weeks, 22 Penn. St., 89; Bishop v. Rowe, 71 Me., 263; Com. v. Dallinger, 118 Mass., 239; Smalley v. White, 44 Me., 412; Hall v. Shorter, 46 Ala., 453; Wilder v. De Wolf, 24 Ill., 190; Bets v. Johnson, 3 Hill (N. Y.), 114. But, when indersed, it becomes operative, the same as though it had been made payable to the first indersec.

If an instrument be made in terms so ambiguous that it is doubtful whether it be a bill of exchange or a promissory note, the holder may treat it as either, at his election. \*Thus, where for goods sold and delivered the defendant gave the plaintiff an instrument in the following form:

44l. 11s. 5d.

LONDON, 5th August, 1833.

Three months after date I promise to pay Mr. Joh Bury, or order, forty-four pounds eleven shillings and five pence, value received.

J. B. GRUTHEROT,

JOHN BURY.

35 Montague Place, Bedford Place.

and Grutherot's name was written across the instrument as an acceptance, and Bury's name on the back as an indorsement, it was held that the plaintiff might treat the defendant Bury either as a drawer of a bill or maker of a note, and therefore was not bound to give him notice of dishonor.<sup>2</sup>

So where an instrument was in the following form:

21st October, 1804.

Two months after date pay to the order of John Jenkins, 781. 11s., value received.

THOMAS STEPHENS.

At Messrs. John Morson & Co.

Lord Ellenborough held that it was properly a bill of exchange,

Peto v. Reynolds, 9 Exch., 410; Armfield v. Allport, 27 L. J., Exch., 42; Fielder v. Marshall, 30 L. J., C. P., 158; 9 C. B. (N. S.), 606 (93 E. C. L. R.), s. c.; and court of law in furtherance of justice and the intentions of the parties, will be astute to put such a construction upon it, ut res magis valeat. But still, if it be a mere inchoate instrument, it is neither a bill of exchange nor a promissory note. See M'Call r. Taylor, 34 L. J., 365, and the preceding chapter. See also Cooper v. Paxton, 1 Duv. (Ky.), 92; Brazleton v. McMurray, 44 Ala., 323. As to the rule in N. Y., under the statute providing that such notes shall have the same effect as if payable to bearer. See Irving Nat. Bk. v. Alley, 79 N. Y., 536.

<sup>2</sup> Edis v. Bury, 6 B. & C., 433 (13 E. C. L. R.); 9 D. & R., 492; see Edwards v. Dick, 4 B. & Ald., 212 (6 E. C. L. R.); Block v. Bell, 1 M. & Rob., 149; see Dickenson v. Teague, 4 Tyrwh., 450; 1 C., M. & R., 241, s. c.; Lloyd v. Oliver, 18 Q. B., 471 (83 E. C. L. R.).

s. C. L. R. 162 but that perhaps it might have been treated as a promissory note, at the option of the holder.1

A man may draw a bill on himself, and of that opinion were all the judges of the C. P. Perhaps such a bill would be good where the drawer draws on himself \*payable to his own order; and a bill is sometimes drawn payable to the drawee's order. It is conceived that in the latter case, as well as the former, the instrument might, when accepted, be declared on as a promissory note of the drawee. But a bill payable to the drawee's order is clearly not a bill of exchange.

If a man draw a bill upon himself, it may be treated by the holder as a note. So may a bill drawn by a banking company in one place on the same banking company in another place.

1 Shuttleworth v. Stephens, 1 Camp., 407; Allan v. Mawson, 4 Camp., 115; Gray v. Milner, 8 Taunt., 739 (4 E. C. L. R.); 3 B. Moore, 90, s. c.; Rex v. Hunter, R. & R. C. C., 511; Armfield v. Allport, 27 L. J., Exch., 42. An indorsement on a bond, ordering the contents to be paid to order for value received, is a good bill of exchange. Bay r. Freazer, 1 Bay (S. C.), 66. So of a request to pay a promissory note, written under the note by the promisor; and the drawee, after acceptance, is liable to an action: Leonard v. Mason, 1 Wend. (N.Y.), 522. As between indorsee and indorser, a promissory note is a bill of exchange as to demand and notice: Crenshaw v. Mc-Cierman, Minor, 295. Where a promissory note made by a resident of one State, and payable to a person resident in another, is indorsed, if the indorsement can be regarded as a bill, it is to be deemed as a foreign bill: Carter v. Burley, 9 N. H., 558. A writing purporting to be a certificate that A. had deposited a sum of money in a bank of the city of New York, dated July 6, 1839, and payable on the 1st December then next, to the order of A., and signed by the president of the bank, was assigned to B. for value received by an indorsement thereon subscribed by A. Held that such indorsement was a bill of exchange, imposing on the parties the ordinary liabilities attached to that kind of paper: Kilgore v. Bulkley, 14 Conn., 362; Lynch v. Goldsmith, 64 Ga., 42.

Although a note be not in form negotiable, the payee may make it so by indorsing it payable to order, after which it becomes, as between him and the holder, an inland bill of exchange, which an indorsee takes subject to the same rules which govern instruments negotiable in their inception; Brenizer v. Wightman, 7 W. & S. (Penn.), 264. See Leidy v. Tammany, 9 Watts (Penn.), 353; Elkinton v. Fennimore, 13 Penn. St., 173.

- <sup>2</sup> Starke v. Cheesman, Carthew, 508; Dehers v. Harriot, 1 Show., 163; Robinson v. Bland, 2 Barr., 1077.
- <sup>3</sup> Magor v. Hammond, C, P., cited by Bayley J., 9 B. & C., 364 (17 E. C. L. R.); and see Roach v. Ostler, 1 Man. & R., 120.
  - 4 1 Pardessus, 351.
  - <sup>5</sup> Reg. v. Bartlett, 2 M. & Rob., 362. See Peto v. Reynolds, 9 Exch., 410.
  - <sup>6</sup> Roach r. Ostler, 1 M. & R., 120.
  - <sup>7</sup> Miller v. Thompson, 3 M. & G., 576 (42 E. C. L. R.).

An instrument which directs the drawee to pay without acceptance is nevertheless a bill of exchange.1

A note written by the creditor to his debtor at the foot of the creditor's account, requesting the debtor to pay that account to the creditor's agent, has been held not a bill of exchange, nor an order for the payment of money within the Stamp Act.'

Bills and notes must be for payment of money only, and not for the payment of money and the performance of some other act. Therefore, a note to deliver up horses and a wharf, and pay money

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> Reg. v. Kinnear, 2 M. & Rob. 117; Miller v. Thompson, 3 M. & G., 576 (42 E. C. L. R.).

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup> Norris v. Solomon, 2 M. & Rob., 266. But in America it has been held that an indersement on a bond or promissory note ordering the contents to be paid to order is a good bill of exchange.

<sup>3</sup> Martin v. Chauntry, 2 Stra. 1271; Moore v. Vanlute, B. N. P. 272, 5th ed.; Follott v. Moore, 19 L. J., Exch., 6; 4 Exch., 410, s. c. In this case a note, agreeing also to give real security, was held void as a note. But a note reciting that real security had been given is a good note, and requires only a note stamp: Fancourt v. Thorne, 9 Q. & B., 312 (58 E. C. L. R.). See ante, chapter iv. An instrument in this form: "I promise to pay C. A. D. or bearer on demand the sum of 161. at sight, by giving up clothes and papers," etc., was held a good promissory note, it being considered that the latter words imported the consideration already received by the maker: Dixon v. Nuttall, 1 C. M. & R., 307; 6 C. P., 320 (25 E. C. L. R.), s. c. A note is not negotiable unless it is certain as to payment and not dependent on a contingency and is payable in money: Roberts r. Smith, 58 Vt., 492; but if it contains an unconditional and absolute promise to pay a certain sum of money an absolute liability is thereby created although the consideration is described as being certain property the title to which does not pass until the note is paid: Burnley r. Tufts, 66 Miss., 48; Stevens v. Blunt, 7 Mass., 240; State National Bank v. Mason, 39 La. Ann., 865; Davis v. Macready, 17 N. Y., 230; Goodlow v. Taylor, 3 Hawkes (N. C.), 458. In Siegel v. Chicago Trust and Savings Bank, 133, Ill., 75, a note which contained a recital that it was given for the privilege of hanging advertising signs in street cars for three months from a certain subsequent date, was held to be negotiable and enforcible as such by a holder for value although the consideration subsequently failed. If there is a promise to pay a certain sum, or do some other act, the instrument is a contract, and not a note: Barnes v. Gorman, 9 Rich. (S. C.), 297; Cook r. Satterlee, 6 Cow. (N. Y.), 108; but, it has been held that such a note is negotiable as to the obligation to pay money: Gaines v. Shetlow, 47 Ala., 413; Baxter v. Stewart, 4 Sneed (Tenn.), 213. A note providing for "interest at ten per cent. per annum until paid; seven, if paid when due," is not made non-negotiable by such provision: Smith v. Cran, 33 Minn., 144; Longworth v. Askren, 15 Ohio St., 370; Brockway v. Clark, 6 Ohio, 45; Davis v. Rider, 53 Ill., 416; Bane v. Gridley, 67 Ill., 388; but see contra Waller v. Long, 6 Munf. (Va.), 71; nor one in which the right is reserved to pay the note in certain instalments, at certain fixed dates before it is due: Riker v. Sprague Manufg. Co., 14 R. I., 402; Van Buskirk v. Day, 32 Ill., 260; or one which is payable "on or before" a certain day: Curtis v. Horn, 58 N. H., 504; Mattison v. Marks, 31 Mich., 421; Ernst v. Steckman, 27 Penn. St., 13. In Cota v. Buck, 7 Met. (Mass.), 588, it was held that a note in the following form, namely:

at a particular day, was held no promissory note. Nor must a bill or note be in the alternative, as to pay a sum of money or render A. B. to prison.

And it must be for money in specie; therefore, a promise to pay in three good East India bonds, or in cash, or Bank of England

notes,3 is not a promissory note.4

"For value I promise to pay J. P. or bearer \$570.50, it being for property I purchased of him in value at this date, as being payable as soon as can be realized of the above amount for the said property I have this day purchased of said P. which is to be paid in the course of the season now coming," was a negotiable promissory note, on the ground that it was payable at all events within a limited time, namely, "the coming season;" and that whether that meant harvest time or the end of the year, it must come by mere lapse of time, and that must be the ultimate limit of the time of payment."

- 1 Smith v. Boheme, Gilb. Ca. L. & E., 93; cited Lord Raym., 1396. A note promising to pay A. a given sum in one from the first of October following the date, in cattle or in grain the first of January following, is void for uncertainty: Wainwright r. Straw, 15 Vt., 215. A note payable "twenty-four after date" is not void for uncertainty, nor is it a note on demand; it is 'payable some time after date. Such a note is admissible in evidence without other testimony, under an averment in the declaration that twenty-four months after date was the time meant by the parties. the jury being the judges of the fact of the time of payment intended: Conner v. Routh, 7 How. (Miss.), 176. See Henschel v. Mahler, 3 Den. (N. Y.), 428; Sweetser r. French, 13 Met. (Mass.), 262; White v. Word, 22 Ala., 442; Burnham v. Atters, 1 Gray (Mass.), 496; Nicholas v. Frothingham, 45 Me., 220; Pearson v. Stoddard, 9 Gray (Mass.), 199. In ascertaining the amount of a note, where there is an uncertainty, the words in the body, not the figures in the margin, will govern: Mears r. Graham, 8 Blackf. (Ind.), 144; Smith v. Smith, 1 R. I., 398. In an action on a note for "the sum of fifty-two  $r_{00}^{25}$ ," it was held that the fraction showed beyond question that the word omitted was "dollars:" Murrill r. Handy, 17 Mo., 406.
  - <sup>2</sup> Bull, N. P., 272.
- <sup>3</sup> Bayley 11, 6th ed.; Ex parte Imeon, 2 Rose, 225; but see 3 & 4 Will., 4, c. 98, s. 6.
- 4 A note payable in current funds or New York funds is not negotiable: Hasbrook r. Palmer, 2 McLean (U.S., S. C.), 10; Kirkpatrick v. McCollough, 3 Humph. (Tenn.), 171; Collins v Lincoln, 11 Vt., 268; Thompson v. Sloan, 23 Wend. (N. Y.), 71; Whitean r. Childress, 6 Humph. (Tenn.) (U.S. S. S.), 303; Fry v. Rousseau, 3 McLean (U.S. C. C.), 106; see Swetland v. Creigh 15 Ohio, 128; Besancon v. Shirley, 9 S. & M. (Miss), 457; Cotkrill v. Kirkpatrick, 9 Mo., 697: White v. Richmond, 16 Ohio, 5; Wilburn v. Greer, 1 Eng. (Ark), 255; Ogden v. Slade, 1 Tex., 13; Fleming v. Nall, 1 Tex., 246; Chevalier v. Buford, Id., 503. See ante, p. 5, n. (1). A bill payable in "currency" is not a bill of exchange: Faswell v. Kennett, 7 Miss., 595. So a draft payable in "Arkansas money:" Hawkins v. Watkins, 5 Ark., 481. So "current rate of exchange to be added:" Philadelphia Bank v. Newkirk, 2 Miles (Penn.), 442. See Little v. Phœnix Bank, 7 Hill (N. Y.), 359; Bank v. Johnson, 3 Rich. (S. C.), 42. A bill payable in "funds current in the city of New York" was held to be payable in gold or silver or their equivalent, and was therefore good as a bill of exchange: Lacy v. Holbrook, 4 Ala., 88; Carter v. Penn., Id., 140. A note for a sum certain, payable in cotton at a fixed price, is a promissory note, and may be declared on as such: Rankin v. Sanders. 6 How. (Miss), 52.

\*And the sum must be certain, not susceptible of contingent or indefinite additions. Therefore, where an instrument promised to pay J. S. the sum of 65l., with lawful interest for the same, and all other sums which should be due to him, Lord Ellenborough held that it was not a promissory note, even for the sixty-five pounds.¹ Nor must the sum payable be subject to indefinite or contingent deductions. Thus, where the defendant promised to pay 400l. to the representatives of J. S., first deducting thereout any interest or money J. S. might owe to the defendant, it was held no promissory note.¹

And for the payment of money. Where the instrument contains a stipulation that the money or a portion of it shall be paid by a set-off, it is no promissory note.

It will be seen upon an examination of the roregoing cases that many of them are not so irreconcilable as at first sight they may appear. Many of them construe the words current money, New York funds, Arkansas money, used in bills and notes to mean lawful gold and silver coin of the United States. In Missouri, current funds is held to mean either coin or notes of the Missouri Bank—a bank authorized by the State—and in Texas the terms "bank notes," "good bank notes," or "current bank notes" as employed by them, are held to import in their original acceptation such bank bills only as are redeemable in gold and silver, or such as are equivalent thereto. A contract for the payment of a certain sum in bank notes or other paper currency may or may not be equivalent to that sum in specie. The extent of the obligation depends on the meaning which usage affixes to the terms at the time the contract was made. Usage gives force and effect to language; and as terms are generally understood in the ordinary transactions of life, so should they be construed by courts of justice: 1 Texas, 246.

Bills or notes payable in goods or merchandise are not negotiable: Jerome v. Whitney, 7 John. (N. Y.), 321; Thomas v. Roosa, Id., 461; Pray v. Pickett, 1 N. & McCord (S. C.), 254; Rhodes v. Lindley, 1 Hamm. Ch. (Ohio), 51; Atkinson v. Manks, 1 Cow. (N. Y.), 691; Lawrence v. Doherty, 5 Yerg. (Tenn.), 435; Burns v. Graham, 4 Cow. (N. Y.), 452; Wyman v. Winslow, 11 Me., 398; Bailey v. Symonds, 6 N. H., 159; Smith v. Loomis, 7 Conn., 110. See ante, p. 5, n. (1); Bradley v. Zell, 4 Biss. (U. S. C. C.), 473; Harris Co. v. Marsh, 49 Iowa, 11; Ferguson v. Hogan, 25 Minn., 135; and the same rule prevails where they are payable in bank notes: Keith v. Jones, 9 John. (N. Y.), 120; Judah v. Harris, 19 Id., 144; Leiber v. Goodrich, 5 Cow. (N. Y.), 136; Lange v. Kohne, 1 McCord (S. C.), 115; Jones v. Fales, 4 (Mass.), 245; McCormick v. Trotter, 10 S. & R. (Penn.), 94; Digberty v. Dumell, 5 Yerg., 451; Fray v. Donahue, 4 Watts. (Penn.), 400; 3 Kent's Com., 76; Schnew v. Fay, 12 Kan., 134.

Smith v. Nightingale, 2 Stark., 375 (3 E. C. L. R.); Bolton v. Dugdale, 4 B. &

Ad., 619 (24 E. C. L. R.); 1 N. & M., 412, 8. c.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup> Smith v. Nightingale, 2 Stark., 375 (3 E. C. L. R.); Barlow v. Broadhurst, 4 B Moore, 471; and see Leeds v. Lancashire, 2 Camp., 205; Bolton v. Dugdale, 4 B. & Ad., 619 (24 E. C. L. R.); 1 N. & M., 412, s. c.; 2 Bligh, 79; Ayrey v. Fearnsides, 4 M. & W., 168.

<sup>\*</sup> Davies v. Wilkinson, 10 A. & E., 98 (37 E. C. L. R.); 2 P. & D., 256, s. c.

The order or promise must be to pay absolutely and at all event; and payment must not depend upon a contingency; for,

1 Bunker r. Atheam, 35 Me., 361; Hays v. Gwin, 19 Ind., 19. A promissory note. in terms payable to order, but containing a condition that it shall be given up to the maker as soon as the amount of it is received by the payee, is not negotiable: Hubbard v. Mosely, 11 Gray (Mass.), 170. A written promise to pay money, on the happening of a contingency, does not import a consideration sufficient to support the promise, but one must be averred and proved by the party seeking to recover upon such instrument; Conover v. Stillwell, 34 N. J. Law, 54. A promise to the maker's own order, "subject to the policy," and indorsed specially to the order of an insurance company, is not negotiable: American Exchange Bank v. Blanchard. 7 Allen (Mass.), 333. A note payable without defalcation or discount, "provided said sum is not in the meantime collected from assets of Pemberton & Co.," the promise to pay is not conditional. The effect is simply to charge third persons with notice, and imposes no obligation on the payees to collect any sum from the assets mentioned, and therefore its negotiability is not destroyed: Pemberton v. Hoosier. 1 Kan., 108. And the same is true as to a note payable in six months after date. if not paid when due to bear ten per cent. interest: Houghton v. Francis, 29 Ill., 244. But a promise to pay "when any dividends shall be declared" by a certain corporation is payable on a contingency, being dependent on the will of the corporation, and is not a promissory note: Brooks v. Hargreaves, 21 Mich., 254; Bannister r. Rouse, 44 Mich., 428. An order to pay a sum out of a specific fund is not a bill: Ehrses r. De Mill, 75 N. Y., 370; Wadlington v. Covert, 51 Miss., 631. As to promissory notes see Andrews v. Harvey, 39 Tex., 123; Read v. Buffalo, 67 Barb. (N. Y.), 526. They must be absolute and unconditional: Baird r. Underwood, 74 III., 176; Mason r. Metcalf, 4 Bax. (Tenn.), 440; Cushing v. Field, 70 Mo., 50; Bank v. Armstrong, 25 Minn., 530; and certain in amount: Russell v. Russell, 1 MacA. (U. S. D. C.), 263; White v. Smith, 76 Ill., 319; Gaar v. Louisville Co., 11 Bush., 180; Way r. Smith, 111 Mass., 523; Stillwell r. Craig, 58 Mo., 17. There is considerable conflict upon the question whether a provision in a note for the payment of an attorney's fee, whether fixed in amount or not, defeats the negotiability of a note, but it may be said that the tendency of the courts is to the adoption of the doctrine that it does not, upon the ground that the amount to be paid upon the note, if paid at maturity, is fixed, and certain, and that the only effect of the provision is to fix a penalty for its non-payment when due: Dietrich v. Baylie, 23 La. Ann., 767; Stoneman v. Pyle, 35 Ind., 103; Smith v. Silvers, 32 Ind., 321; Sperry v. Horr, 32 Iowa, 184; Scaton r. Scoville, 18 Kan., 433; McGill v. Griffin, 32 Iowa, 445; Mc-Intyre v. Cagley, 37 Iowa, 676; Miner v. Bank, 53 Tex., 559; Parham v. Pullion, 5 Col., 407; Imler r. Imler, 94 Penn. St., 372; Peyser v. Cole, 11 Or., 39; Wilson S. M. Co., r. Moreno, 6 Sawy., (U. S. C. C.), 35; Trader r. Chadester, 41 Ark., 242; Barton r. Farmers & M. Nat. Bank, 122, Ill., 352; Gaar v. Louisville Banking Co., 11 Bush., (Ky.), 186; while in others, this doctrine is rejected, and notes with such a condition are held to defeat the negotiability of the note.

In some of them upon the ground that such stipulations are void as contrary to public policy and the statute regulating costs recoverable in actions: Witherspoon v. Mussleman, 14 Bush., (Ky.), 214; Bullock v. Taylor, 39 Micro., 137; and in others upon the broad ground that it is opposed to that rule of the commercial law which requires that negotiable paper should be simple, certain, unconditional and not subject to any contingency Woods v. North, 84 Penn. St., 407; Johnson v. Spear, 92 Penn. St., 227; Dow v. Updike, 11 Neb., 95; First Nat. Bank of New Windsor v. Bynum, 84 N. C., 24; Garrettson v. Purdy (Dak.), 14 N. W. Rep.,

as observed by Lord Kenyon," It would perplex commercial transactions if paper securities of this kind were issued into the world, incumbered with conditions and contingencies, and if the persons to whom they were offered in negotiation were obliged to inquire when these uncertain events would probably be reduced to a certainty." Besides, the recognition of conditional promissory notes would make a variety of conditional promises in writing valid, without evidence of consideration, and thus materially infringe on an established and very salutary rule of law.2 Thus, a note to this effect "We promise to pay A. B. 116l. 11s. value received, on the death of George Henshaw, provided he leaves either of us sufficient to pay that said sum, or if we otherwise shall be able to pay it," is not a promis. sory note within the statute.8 So, a written engagement to pay a certain sum so many days after the defendant's marriage is no promissory note, for, possibly, he never may marry.4 So, a paper, \*whereby the defendants promise to pay the plaintiffs, or order, the sum of 13l. for value received, with interest at 5l. per cent., "and all fines according to the rule," cannot be declared on as a promissory note. So, an order payable,

100; Jones v. Radatz, 27 Minn., 240; First Nat. Bank v. Gay, 53 Mo., 38; Hardin v. Olson, 14 Fed. Rep., 705; Maryland F. & M. Co. v. Newman, 60 Md., 584; First Nat. Bank of Stillwater v. Larson, 60 Wis., 206. It will be noticed that the later cases in Pennsylvania hold that such a provision in a note does not defeat its negotiability. And in a recent case in Oregon it has been held that such a provision in a note is unreasonable and of no legal effect and cannot be enforced: Kimball v. Moir. 15 Or., 427; Schlesinger r. Arline, 31 Fed. Rep., 648. It will also be observed by an examination of the cases referred to that in some of the States at least a distinction is made where the amount of the attorney's fee is fixed and certain as where 5 per cent. upon the amount of the note or any other fixed percentage is made and those instances where the amount of the attorney's fee is left open and is not ascertainable from an inspection of the face of the note and this distinction is entitled to great weight in the determination of questions of this character. See also upon this question: Overton v. Tyler, 3 Penn. St., 346; Sweeney v. Trickstan, 77 Id., 131; Wood v. North, 84 Id., 407; Bank v. Bruce, 39 Id., 640; Bank v. Krause, 50 Iowa, 235; Nelson v. White, 61 Ind., 139; Myer v. Hart, 40 Mich., 517; Bank r. Rasmussen, 1 Dak. T., 66; Heard v. Bank, 8 Neb. 10; Cartharge Bank v. Marlow, 71 Mo., 618; Dow v. Updike, 11 Neb., 95. Promissory note on condition that the payce abstains from intoxicating liquors a certain term is good: Lindell r. Rakes, 60 Mo., 249.

- <sup>1</sup> Carlos v. Fancourt, 5 T. R., 482.
- 2 See Pearson v. Garrett, 4 Mod., 242.
- \* Roberts r. Peake, 1 Burr., 323; Leeds v. Lancashire, 2 Camp., 305.
- 4 Beardsley v. Baldwin, 2 Stra., 1151; and see Pearson v. Garrett, 4 Mod., 242; Comb., 227, s. c., which was before the statute 3 & 4 Anne, c. 9.
  - 5 Ayrey v. Fearnsides, 4 M. & W., 168. The rule is, under the law merchant, 168

" provided the terms mentioned in certain letters, written by the drawer, were complied with," is no bill. So, a note promising to pay, "On the sale or produce of the White Hart, St. Albans, Herts, and the goods, etc., value received," is not a promissory note, though it be averred that, before action brought, the White Hart and the goods were sold.2 The following instrument was held not to be a note: "Borrowed and received of A. the sum of 2001. in three drafts, by B., date as under, payable to us on C., which we promise to pay to the said A., with interest." The instrument then specified the drafts which fell due at a future day. Lord Ellenborough observed, "There can be no doubt that the money was not payable immediately, and that it was not to be paid at all unless the drafts were honored." So, an order to pay at thirty days after the arrival of the ship Paragon at Calcutta was held to be no bill of exchange. So, an order to pay "141. 3s. out of the fifth payment, when it should be due, and should be allowed by J. S.," is no bill of exchange. But, "I promise to pay to J. S. or his order, at three months after date, as per memorandum of agreement," was held to be a promissory note, and that if the agreement made the promise conditional, the defendant ought to have shown it by setting it out in his plea.6

An instrument in this form, "At twelve months I promise to pay A. B. 500l., to be held by them as collateral security for any moneys now owing to them by J. M., which they may be unable to recover on realizing the securities they now hold and others which may be placed in their hands by him," is no promissory note."

that in order to render a note negotiable the amount to be paid at maturity must be ascertainable from the face of the note, without resort to evidence dehors the note; and anything which renders the amount uncertain, defeats the negotiability of the instrument: Windsor Sav. Bank v. McMahon, 38 Fed. Rep., 283.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> Kingston v. Long, Bayley 16, 6th ed.
<sup>2</sup> Hill v. Halford, 2 B. & P. 413.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>3</sup> Williamson v. Bennett, 2 Camp., 417; and see Clark v. Perceval, 2 B. & Ad., 660 (22 E. C. L. R.); Shenton v. James, 5 Q. B., 199 (48 E. C. L. R.); Drury v. Macaulay, 16 M. & W., 146; Alexander v. Thomas, 16 Q. B., 333 (71 E. C. L. R.); Storm v. Stirling, 3 E. & B., 832 (77 E. C. L. R.); Cowie v. Stirling, 6 E. & B., 333 (88 E. C. L. R.).

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>4</sup> Palmer v. Pratt, 2 Bing., 185 (9 E. C. L. R.); 9 Moo., 385; Clark v. Perceval, 2 B. & Ad., 660 (22 E. C. L. R.); Worley v. Harrison, 5 Nev. & M., 173; 3 A, & E., 669 (30 E. C. L. R.), s. c.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>5</sup> Haydock v. Lynch, 2 Ld. Raym., 1563.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>8</sup> Jury v. Baker, E., B. & E., 459 (96 E. C. L. R.).

Robins v. May, 11 A. & E., 214 (39 E. C. L. R.); 3 Per. & D., 147; 3 Jurist, 1188, s. c.

\*But it is not material that the time when the event may happen is uncertain, provided it must happen at some time or other; thus, a note payable on the death of A. B., or of the maker, is good. So, a note payable when a king's ship shall be paid off has been held to be a good note, the Court of Error observing, "The paying off of the ship is a thing of a public nature. But it is said that the Court below assigned as a reason that the ship would certainly be paid off one time or other. The contingency, in order to vitiate the note as such, must be apparent on the face of the instrument. A promissory note payable with interest, twelve months after notice, is not to be considered as payable on a contingency, and is, consequently, valid.

The happening of the contingency on which the payment of the bill is dependent will not cure the defect.

A note beginning, "I, A. B., promise, etc.," and signed A. B., or else C. D., is a good note against A. B., but only evidence as

- Cooke v. Colehan, 2 Stra., 1217; Roffey v. Greenwell, 2 Per. & Dav., 365; 10 A.
   E., 222 (37 E. C. L. R.).
  - <sup>2</sup> Andrews v. Franklin, 1 Stra., 24; Evans v. Underwood, 1 Wils., 262.
- <sup>3</sup> And see Haussoullier v. Hartsink, 7 T. R., 733; Dixon v. Nuttall, 6 C. & P., 320 (25 E. C. L. R.); 1 C., M. & R., 307, s. c.; Goss v. Nelson, 1 Burr., 226. "I promise to pay, or cause to be paid," is a good note, the alternative expression importing the same thing: Lovell v. Hill, 6 C. & P., 238 (25 E. C. L. R.).
- <sup>4</sup> Colchan v. Cooke, Willes, 399; 1 Selw., N. P., 375. A note to an infant, payable when he shall come of age, has been held good, if it specifies the particular day; Goss v. Nelson, 1 Burr., 226; 1 Ld. Kenyon, 498, 8. C.
  - <sup>5</sup> Richards v. Richards, 2 B. & Ad., 447 (22 E. C. L. R.).
- 6 Clayton v. Gosling, 5 B. & C., 360 (11 E. C. L. R.); 3 D. & R., 110, s. c. A writing in these words, "One day after date I promise to pay, or at my death-W. G. C. or bearer," may be sued as a promissory note: Conn. v. Thornton, 46 Ala., 587. The negotiable character of a promissory note is not affected by the fact that it is made payable by its terms "on or before" a future day therein named. It may be regarded as payable solely on the day named: Jordan v. Tate, 19 Ohio St., 586. A memorandum at the foot of a promissory note, "This note is to be valid as part pay for a piano forte of me at retail price," held to be consistent with the promise in the note to pay in money, and without explanatory evidence aliunde, to leave the application at the payee's option: Preston v. Whitney, 23 Mich., 260. A note payable thirty days after peace between the Confederate States and the United States is valid. It does not depend upon a condition: Morter v. Edwards, 20 La. Ann., 236. A note may be negotiable if payable certainly at a fixed time, though subject to a contingency under which it may become due earlier: Ernst v. Steckman, 74 Penn. St., 13. A note payable when convenient is treated as a promise to pay within a reasonable time: Work r. Hershey, 35 Iowa, 340. A note payable on or before three years from date is not due until the three years have expired: Helmer v. Krolick, 36 Mich., 371.
  - 7 Chitty, 7th ed., 45; Hill r. Halford, 2 B. & P., 413; Chitty, 9th ed., 135, 144. 170

against C. D. of a conditional agreement to pay if A. B. does not.1

In this last case the maker was uncertain; the note, as such, is not available at all if the payee be uncertain. Thus, where the maker promised to pay to A. or to B. and C. a certain sum, Abbott, C. J., said, "I have no doubt this instrument is not a promissory note within the statute of Anne; for, if a note be made payable to one or other of two persons, it is payable only on the contingency of its not having been paid to the other, and is not a good promissory note within the statute." So a bill of [\*98] \*exchange or promissory note payable after date to the secretary for the time being of a company is void as a bill or note.

Upon the same principle the bill or note must not be made payable out of a particular fund, for the fund may prove insufficient.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> Ferris v. Bond, 4 B. &. Al., 679 (6 E. C. L. R.); and see Appleby v. Biddulph, B. N., 272, cited Morice v. Lee, 8 Mod., 363, 4 Vin. Ab., 240, pl. 16.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup> Blanckenhagen v. Blundell, 2 B. & Ald., 417.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>3</sup> Storm r. Sterling, 3 E. & B., 832 (77 E. C. L. R.); Cowie v. Sterling, 6 E. & B., 333 (88 E. C. L. R.); Yates v. Nash, 8 C. B. (N. S.), 581, (78 E. C. L. R.); but see Holmes v. Jacques, ante, p. 77.

Jenno r. Herle, 2 Ld. Raym., 1361; 8 Mod., 265; 1 Stra., 591, s. c.; Haydock v. Lynch. 2 Ld. Raym., 1553; Dawkes v. Lord de Loraine, 2 W. Bla., 782; 3 Wils., 207, g. c.; Yates v. Grove, 1 Ves. jun., 280; Carlos v. Fancourt, 5 T. R., 482.

<sup>5</sup> It is essential to a bill or note that it be payable in money only at all events, and not out of a particular fund: Atkinson v. Monks, 1 Cow. (N. Y.), 691; Cook v. Satterlee, 6 Cow. (N. Y.), 108; Waters v. Carlton, 4 Port. (Ala.) 205; Tucker v. Maxwell, 11 Mass., 143; Wooley v. Sergeant, 3 Halst. (N. J.), 262; Mills v. Kuykendall, 2 Blackf. (Ind.), 47; May v. Lansdown, 6 J. J. Marsh. (Ky.), 170; Van Vactor r.Flack, 1 S. & M. (Miss.), 393; Hamilton v. Myrick, 3 Ark., 541; Rice v. Porter, 1 Harr. (Del.), 440; Wallace v. Dyson, 1 Spears (S. C.), 127; Strader v. Batchelor, 8 B. Mon. (Ky.), 168; Warden v. Dodge, 4 Den. (N. Y.), 159; Wilamoice v. Adams, 8 Eng. (Ark.), 12: Kinney v. Lee, 10 Tex., 155; Owen v. Lavine, 14 Ark., 389; Averott v. Booker, 15 Gratt. (Va.), 163; Van Wagner v. Terrett, 27 Barb. (N. Y.), 181; Gliddon v. McKinstry, 28 Ala., 408; Harriman v. Sanborn, 43 N. H., 121; Second National Bank v. Lausing, 1 Mich. (C. C.), 181; Kelly v. Branson, 20 Minn., 350. A note by which the maker promises to pay "when he receives it from the government, for losses, or as soon as otherwise convenient," a sum certain for labor therein mentioned to have been done, was held not to be a conditional obligation, but to be payable in any event in a reasonable time: Jones v. Eisler, 3 Kan., 124. The words "payable out of and from my separate property and estate, with interest payable quarterly," added to an instrument drawn in the usual form of a promissory note, will not affect its negotiability. The expression of that fact does not state a particular fund, the separate property of the maker not being in the legal . sense a particular fund: Skillen v Richmond, 48 Barb. (N. Y.), 428. An order directing the amount to be charged "against whatever amount may be due me for my share of fish caught on board schooner Star," is an absolute order and not

Plaintiff drew upon A., and required him to pay B. 7l. per month out of plaintiff's growing subsistence. This was held no bill of exchange; for, had plaintiff died, or his subsistence been taken away, the bill would not have been payable. So, an order from the owner of a ship to the charterer to pay money on account of freight is no bill; for the future existence and amount of any debt due for freight are subject to a contingency. And the same rule holds if the contingency is expressed on the back of the note, by an indorsement made before the note was a perfect instrument.

limited to the proceeds of the drawer's share. An action may be maintained thereon in the name of an indorsee: Redman v. Adams, 51 Mc., 429; Grant v. Wood, 12 Gray. (Mass.), 220. An order of a client on an attorney to pay money out of any sum collected for him is not a bill of exchange: Crawford v. Cully, Wright (Ohio), 453, So an order for a certain amount in merchandise is not a bill of exchange: Gwinn v. Roberts, 3 Ark., 72; Bradley v. Morris, 5 Ill., 182; Carleton v. Brooks, 14 N. H., 149. An order to pay over rents accruing up to a specified time is not a bill of exchange, though the rents were payable in money: Morton v. Naylor, 1 Hill (N. Y.), 583. An order in this form: "On 1st January, 1836, pay to my order five thousand dollars, for value received, and charge the same to my account for transporting the United States mail," is not negotiable so as to entitle the holder to sue in his own name: Reesider. Knox, 2 Whart. (Penn.), 233. A draft on the general Post-Office to pay from certain funds is not a bill of exchange: Raiguel v. Ayliff. 16 Ark., 594. An order drawn upon the treasury by a public officer for his salary is not a bill of exchange: Strader v. Batchelor, 8 B. Mon. (Ky.), 168. A bill of exchange in form drawn by one government on another, as the bill drawn by our government on the government of France for moneys due according to a treaty stipulation is not and cannot be governed by the law merchant, and therefore is not subject to protest and consequential damages: United States r. Bank of the United States, 5 How. (U.S.), 382. An order drawn in express terms for a particular fund will operate as an assignment of the fund, but it will not be negotiable and is not a bill of exchange: Cowperthwaite v. Sheffield, 1 Sand. (N. Y.), 416. A bill of exchange, though accepted, does not operate to invest the payee with the character of an assignee of a particular fund, unless drawn on such fund: Wheeler v. Stone, 1 Gill. (Md.), 38. If the fund described in the bill is certain, and is mentioned only as a means by which the drawee is to be indemnified, the bill is good: Bank, etc., v. Sanders, 3 Marsh. (Ky.), 184; Varner v. Nobleborough, 2 Mc., 123; Kelly v. Mayor, etc., 4 Hill (Ky.), 263; Wiggin v. Vaught, Cheves (S. C.), 91; Hoyt r. Lynch, 2 Sandf. (N. Y.), 328; Smith r. Ellis, 29 Me., 442; see West v. Foreman, 21 Ala., 400; Shields r. Taylor, 25 Miss., 143; Coursin r. Ledlies's Admr's, 33 Penn., St., 506; Lowery v. Steward; 3 Bos. (N. Y.), 515. An order of the town clerk for school purposes is not negotiable: State v. Hust, 63 Mo., 288. Nor a county warrant: Camp v. Knox Co., 3 Lee (Tenn.), 199; Johnson v. People, 8 Ill., App., 395; Northumberland r. Rush, 81 Penn. St., 398. Interest coupons: North Bennington Bk. v. Mount Tabor, 52 Vt., 87.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> Josselyn r. Lancier, 10 Mod., 294; Fort., 281, s. c.; see Russell r. Powell, 14 M. & W., 418.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup> Banbury v. Lissett, 2 Stra., 1211.

<sup>\*</sup> Leeds v. Lancashire, 2 Camp., 205.

But the statement of a particular fund in a bill of exchange will not vitiate it if introduced merely as a direction to the drawee how to reimburse himself; thus a bill directing the drawee to pay J. S. 91. 10s., "as my quarterly half-pay," was held to be a good bill."

If the instrument be defective as a bill or note, it still may be evidence of an agreement.2

A coupon is not a promissory note and requires no stamp.4

Scrip issued in England by the agent of a foreign government, by which the holder is to be entitled, on payment in \*full of the instalments due from him, to the delivery of definite bonds, passes by mere delivery to a bona fide holder for value, such being the usage amongst bankers and dealers.

Letters of credit and circular notes are methods of obtaining credit abroad, introduced for the convenience of travellers and agents, to obviate the trouble and risk of carrying about coin or bank notes.

They are now generally used together, in which case the letter of credit is called a letter of indication. A letter of credit is an authority, or rather request, by a banker to his foreign correspondents therein named, to discount bills drawn on him by the bearer. Circular notes are the unsigned drafts, generally for some specific amount, given with the letter and to be used or not at the bearer's discretion. The banker usually indemnifies himself against the bills by anticipation, in which case the bearer may recover the balance of his deposit, if any, on surrendering the letter and unused note.<sup>6</sup> It seems that the effect of such instruments is to place the issuer under a contract binding probably at law, but certainly so in

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> Macleod r. Snee, 2 Str., 762.

any documents or writings (other than bank notes) containing a promise to pay out of a particular fund or on any condition, and such documents must be stamped in accordance with the act; those in the form of bills of exchange with a fixed duty of one penny being deemed payable on demand, and those in the form of promissory notes in accordance with the scale. See post, chapter on STAMP.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>3</sup> Enthoven r. Hoyle, 13 C. B., 373 (76 E. C. L. R.); 21 L. J., C. P., 100.

<sup>4 33 &</sup>amp; 34 Vict., c. 97, Sched., tit. "Bill of Exchange, Exemption 9.

<sup>5</sup> Goodwin v. Roberts, L. R., 10 Exch., 76; 1 Ap. C., 476, where a full history of the progressive development of negotiable qualities in instruments will be found in the judgment of the Lord Chief Justice: Rumball v. Metropolitan Bank, L. R., 2 Q. B. D. 194.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>6</sup> But if any of the notes be lost, it has been held that a sat actory indemnity must be given: Conflans Company v. Parker, L. R., 3 C. P., 1.

equity, to pay even without acceptance all bills drawn in conformity with the letter of credit; and the holders are not to be prejudiced by any set-off or cross claim by the drawee against the drawer.

Letters of credit to be used in England require a stamp; those to be used abroad none, though presumably the drafts, when brought to England for payment or negotiation, fell within the 16 & 17 Vict., c. 83, s. 5, and now within the 51st section of the present act, and must be stamped in accordance with the advalorem scale.

<sup>1</sup> Agra and Masterman's Bank r. Asiatic Bank, 36 L. J., Chanc., 222.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup> Com. Dig. tit. Merch. F., 3.

<sup>3</sup> Agra and Masterman's Bank, super.

<sup>4 33 &</sup>amp; 34 Vict., c. 97, s. 48.

<sup>5</sup> Sched. tit. "Bill of Exchange," Exemption 4.

## OF AGREEMENTS INTENDED TO CONTROL THE OPERATION OF BILLS OR NOTES.

| Various sorts of Agreements, -     | 100 | Promissory Note accompanying a       |     |
|------------------------------------|-----|--------------------------------------|-----|
| Effect of Contemporaneous Agree-   |     | _ ·                                  | 102 |
|                                    | 100 | legan a second                       | 102 |
| Effect of an Agreement subsequent- |     | Delivery in the nature of an Escrow, | 102 |
| ly written on the Instrument, .    | 101 | Agreement to renew,                  | 103 |
| Effect of an Agreement written on  | ſ   | Agreement on Bill must be read, .    | 103 |
| a distinct Paper,                  |     | Pleading on Agreement,               |     |
| Agreement contemporaneous but      |     |                                      |     |
| collateral                         | 101 |                                      |     |

Such agreements are either WRITTEN or ORAL.

S. O.K.

A written agreement is either on the instrument itself or on a distinct paper. Again, a written agreement on the instrument itself is either contemporaneous with the completion of the bill or note, or it is a subsequent agreement. Once more, even a contemporaneous written agreement may either be parcel of the instrument, or it may be collateral.

A memorandum on a bill or note, made before it is complete, is sometimes considered as part of the instrument, so as to control its operation, and sometimes not.<sup>1</sup>

If the memorandum make the payment contingent, we have seen that it will be incorporated in the instrument.<sup>2</sup> \*But [\*101] where it is merely directory, as if it point out the place of

A note will be controlled by anything written on or appended to it by the parties: Eppinger v. Richards, 35 Miss., 540; Perry v. Bigelow, 123 Mass., 129; Wait v. Pomeroy, 20 Mich., 107; Benedict v. Cowden, 49 N. Y., 402; Gift v. Hall, 1 Humph. (Tenn.), 480. A memorandum written on the back of a bill or note, which affects its operation, is regarded as a part of it, the same as though written in the body. thereof: Hughes v. Fisher, 10 Col., 383; Witis v. Cain, 39 La. An., 712; Farmers' Bank v. Ewing, 78 Ky., 266; Barnard v. Cushing, 4 Met. (Mass.), 231; Polo Manuf'g Co. v. Parr, 8 Neb., 379; Blake v. Coleman, 22 Wis., 416; Henry v. Coleman, 5 Vt., 402.

<sup>2</sup> Leeds v. Lancashire, 2 Camp., 205; Hartley v. Wilkinson, 4 M. & S., 25; 4 Camp., 127, s. c. Though by way of indorsement: Leeds v. Lancashire, ubi supra. A joint and several promissory note had an indorsement in this form: "The within

payment, or be merely the expression of an intended courtesy, as if it intimate a wish that the money lent should not be called in by the payee's executors till three years after his death; or if it import that a collateral security (as the deposit of title deeds) has been given; or be intended only to identify and ear-mark the instrument, it does not affect its operation. But a memorandum of the time when the note falls due may correct an error in the date.

A memorandum made after the note is perfected and delivered is an independent agreement, requiring an agreement stamp. "If," says Lord Ellenborough, "the memorandum was subsequently written, when the note had been perfected and delivered in its absolute state, it could not be considered as a part of that instrument, though it chanced to be inscribed upon the same piece of paper. In that case it was an agreement by way of defeasance, and it lay upon the defendant to produce it with a proper stamp." 6

A written agreement, on a distinct paper, to renew, or in other respects to qualify, the liability of the maker or acceptor, is good as between the original parties. Thus, if the drawer agree to

note is given for securing floating advances from the Liucoln and Lindsay Banking Company to the within-named Thomas Smith, Sr. (one of the joint and several makers of the note), with lawful interest for the same from the respective times when such advances have been or may be made, together with commission, stamps, postages, etc., and all usual charges and disbursements, not exceeding in the whole the sum of 100l. within mentioned." It was held to be an agreement which could not be read in evidence without an agreement stamp. Sed query, whether the indersement were anything more than an explanation of the consideration: Cholmley v. Darley, 14 M. & W., 344. See the chapter on Consideration.

- <sup>1</sup> Exton r. Russell, 4 M. & S., 505.
- <sup>2</sup> Stone v. Metcalfe, 4 Camp., 217; 1 Stark., 53 (2 E. C. L. R.), s. c.
- 8 Wise v. Charlton, 4 A. & E., 786 (31 E. C. L. R.); 6 Nev. & M., 364; 2 Har. & W., 49, 8. C.; Fancourt v. Thorne, 9 Q. B., 312 (58 E. C. L. R.).
  - 4 Brill v. Crick, 1 M. & W., 232.
- 5 Fitch r. Jones, 5 E. & B., 238 (75 E. C. L. R.). And see Fanshawe r. Pect, 2 H. & N., 1; Benedict r. Cowden, 49 N. Y., 402.
- 6 Stone v. Metcalfe, 4 Camp., 217; 1 Stark., 53 (2 E. C. L. R.), s. c.; 33 & 34 Vict., c. 97, s. 7. A memorandum entered upon a note after its indersement without the consent of the maker, which materially affects it avoids the note: Woodworth v. Bank, 9 John (N. Y.), 391; Dewey v. Reed, 40 Barb. (N. Y.), 17.
- Bowerbank v. Monteiro, 4 Taunt., 844; but it requires a good consideration to support it: M'Manus v. Bark, 5 L. R., Ex., 65; 39 L. J., 65. A contemporaneous written contract affecting the terms of a note or bill, which is not repugnant thereto, will be construed in connection therewith: Dobbins v. Parker, 46 Iowa, 358; Muzzey v. Knight, 8 Kan., 456; Meyer v. Graher, 19 Kan., 165; Cuthbert v. Bower, 10 Ala,

indemnify the acceptor against a claim by other parties, for a portion of the sum for which the bill is drawn, and the acceptor afterwards pays those other parties a sum to which the indemnity applies, the acceptor's liability, as between himself and the drawer, will be reduced pro tanto, and he will not be turned round to his cross action on the indemnity.

But a written agreement, though contemporaneous, will not restrain the operation of the bill or note if it be \*collateral [\*102] e.g., if other persons besides the parties to the bill or note be parties to it.2

When a promissory note is given to accompany a mortgage deed as further security, the mortgagee is not entitled to sever the two, and a court of equity would, if necessary, issue an injunction to restrain him from so doing.

163; and agreements relating thereto, upon a good consideration, made subsequent to the making of the rate, are equally binding upon the parties and holders with notice: Crossman v. Fuller, 17 Pick. (Mass.), 171; Newton v. Jackson, 23 Ala., 335; Law v. Treadwell, 12 Md., 441; Allen v. Furbish, 4 Gray (Mass.), 501; De Laney v. Lindley, 22 Neb., 274.

- <sup>1</sup> Carr r. Stephens, 9 B. & C., 758 (17 E. C. L. R.); 4 M. & R., 591, s. c.
- Webb v. Spicer, 19 L. J., Q. B., 34; 13 Q. B., 894 (66 E. C. L. R.), s. c., on error in Exchequer Chamber. A memorandum written upon the face of a note, is presumed to have been made contemporaneously with the note itself, but it may be shown when it was in fact made, and the presumption may thus be defeated: Fietcher v. Blodgett, 16 Vt., 26; Henry v. Coleman, 5 Vt., 402; Harvey v. Effinger, 35 Miss., 552. But it seems to be held in some of the States that this presumption does not attach where the memorandum is written on the back of the note: Buy v. Sprader, 50 Miss., 330. A memorandum which was evidently not intended to be a part of the note: Odiorne v. Sargent, 6 N. H., 401; or which merely identified the instrument: Benedict v. Cowden, 49 N. Y., 402; does not affect its negotiability.
- 3 Walker v. Jones, L. R., 1 Pr. C., 50; McGrath v. Barnes, 13 S. C., 323; Graves v. Clark, 6 Blackf. (Ind.), 183; Wright v. Remington, N. Y. L., 48; Wood v. Surrell, 89 Ill., 10; Rice v. Rayland, 22 Hun. (N. Y.), 242; Heist v. Hart, 73 Penn. St., 286; Jones r. Shaw, 67 Mo., 667; Sturdivant r. Hull, 59 Me., 172; Walker r. Clay, 21 Ala., 797; Martin v. Lewis, 30 Gratt. (Va.), 672; Brown v. Spafford, 95 U.S., 430; Foster r. Clifford, 44 Wis., 569; Small v. Cluoley, 62 Me., 122. No condition can be engrafted upon a note or bill by parol evidence, nor can any qualification of the relations of the parties thereto, be thus shown: Penny r. Graves, 12 Ill., 187: Ely r. Kilborn, 5 Den. (N. Y.), 514; Zamer v. Richardson, 6 Allen (Mass.), 351; Potter v. Earnest, 45 Ind., 418; Longentenger r. Knaeger, 48 Cal., 147. The same strictness of the rule excluding extrinsic evidence to add to, substract from, or vary the terms of any written extract: Kirby v. Lewis, 39 Fed. Rep., 66; Stoddard v. Nelson, 16 Or., 417; Lynch v. Dottich, 70 Tex., 72; McKenzie v. Bacon, 40 La. Au., 157; Cummings r. Barber, 99 N. C., 332; Tait v. Central Lunatic Asylum, 84 Va., 271; applies to notes and bills; Wight r. Sumpter, 127 Ill., 167; Dobson r. DeGanahl, 70 Tex. 620; Richie v. Frazer, 50 Ark., 393; Farr v. Ricker, 46 Ohio St., 320; Cortelyon v.

12

177

No mere oral agreement can have any effect at law in controlling the instrument, if contemporaneous with the making of it; for that would be to allow oral evidence to vary a written contract. "Every bill or note," says Parke, J., "imports two things, value received and an engagement to pay the amount on certain specified terms. Evidence is admissible to deny the receipt of value. but not to vary the engagement."

Maher, 22 Neb., 697; LaFayette Co. La. Asso. v. Magoon, 73 Wis., 627; Allen v. Turnham, 83 Ala., 323; Davy v. Kelly, 66 Wis., 452; Clark v. Hart, 49 Ala., 86; Cole v. Handley, 8 S. & M. (Miss.), 473; Baugh v. Rumsey, 4 T. B. Mon. (Ky.), 155; Bradley v. Anderson, 5 Vt., 152; Noe v. Hodges, 3 Humph. (Tenn.), 162; Coe v. Wallace, 5 Blackf. (Ind.), 199; Forsyth v. Kimball, 91 U. S., 291; Canter v. Hamilton, 11 Barb. (N. Y.), 147; Brown v. Wiley, 20 How. (U. S.), 442; Billings v. Billings, 10 Cush. (Mass.), 178. In Wood v. Surrells, 89 Ill., 107; one of several judgment debtors gave a bill of exchange on a third person, whose acceptance was procured in satisfaction of the judgment. It was held that evidence of a parol agreement at the time of the drawing of the bill, to release the drawer from all liability on the draft, was inadmissible. Here the judgment was paid by the drawing and acceptance of the bill; but evidence of a contemporaneous parol agreement that the drawer was not to be liable as such was excluded.

It was further held in this case, that the liability of a drawer of an inland bill of exchange is fixed by presenting the draft on the day of its maturity, and notice of its dishonor. It was also held that an agreement cannot exist partly in writing and partly in parol, or that verbal terms or conditions cannot control the rights of liabilities of parties to commercial paper.

While there is not entire uniformity in the authorities upon the question, their decided weight will be found to support the principle that evidence is not admissible to prove a contemporaneous parol agreement that the liability of the drawer of a bill of exchange is not to be enforced: Martin v. Cole, 104 U. S., 30; Bigelow v. Colton, 13 Gray (Mass.), 309; Davis v. Randall, 115 Mass., 547; Bartlett v. Lee, 33 Ga., 491; Day v. Thompson, 65 Ala., 269; Barnard v. Gaslin, 23 Minn., 192; Crocker v. Getchell, 23 Me., 392; Fuller v. McDonald, 8 Me., 213; Tankersley v. Graham, 8 Ala., 247; Stubbs v. Goodall, 4 Ga., 106; Wilson v. Black, 6 Blackf. (Md.), 509; Holton v. McCormick, 45 Ind., 411; Stack v. Beach, 74 Ind., 571; Woodward v. Foster. 18 Gratt. (Va.), 200; Barry v. Morse, 3 N. H., 132; Haverin v. Donnell, 7 S. & M. (Miss.), 244; Heath v. VanCott, 9 Wis., 516. This is also the rule in England: Albrey v. Crux, L. R., 5 Com. P., 37; Bell v. Lord Ingestre, 12 Q. B., 347; see also Forsythe v. Kimball, 91 U. S., 291; Spacht v. Howard, 16 Wall. (U. S.), 564.

1 Hoare v. Graham, 3 Cam., 57; Free v. Hawkins, 8 Taunt., 92 (4 E. C. L. R.); 1 Moore 28, s. c.; Woodbridge v. Spooner, 3 B. & Al., 233 (5 E. C. L. R.); 1 Ch. R., 661, s. c.; Moseley v. Hanford, 10 B. & C., 729 (21 E. C. L. R.); Foster v. Jolly, 1 C., M. & R., 703; Tyr., 255, s. c.; Richards v. Thomas, 1 C., M. & R., 772; Holt v. Miers, 9 C. & P., 191 (38 E. C. L. R.); Besant v. Cross, 10 C. B., 895 (70 E. C. L. R.).

Abbott r. Hendricks, M. & G., 795 (39 E. C. L. R.); Moseley v. Hanford, 10 B. & C., 729 (21 E. C. L. R.). "The cases," says Maule, J., "show that although a consideration is stated in the note, you may show that it was given for a different consideration or without any consideration at all: Abbott v. Hendricks, 1 M. & G., 791 (39 E. C. L. R.); 2 Scott, N. R., 183, s. c.; but see Ridout v. Bristow, 1 C. & J., 231;

An instrument under seal may be delivered as an escrow, that is to say, with a condition that it shall not operate as \*a deed, [\*103] except in a certain event. An instrument under seal, which is to operate as an escrow, must be delivered, not to the obligee, but to a stranger, and regularly the condition should be expressed by apt words used at the time of the delivery.

1 Tyr., 84, s. c.; and Edwards v. Jones, 2 M. & W., 414; 5 Dowl., 585; 7 C. & P., 633 (32 E. C. L. R.), s. c.

In Pike v. Street, 1 Dans. & Lloyd, 159; 1 M. & M., 226, it was held a good defence to an action against the drawer that, at the time when the plaintiff discounted the the bill, he verbally agreed, in the event of its being dishonored, not to proceed against the drawer, who had indersed the bill to him. In Abrey v. Crux, the contrary was held by the Court of C. P., dubitante that most eminent judge, the late Mr. Justice Wiles, L. R., 5 C. P., 37; 39 L. J., 9.

An indorsement may, perhaps, be excepted from the rule in the text on account of its two-fold operation, it being at once an express assignment to the indorsee of the right of action against the acceptor, and containing incorporated therewith an implied conditional promise on the part of the indorser to pay on the acceptor's default. This conditional promise may be varied by parol, so as to increase the indorser's liability: Phipson v. Kelner, 4 Camp., 285; Burgh v. Legge, 5 M. & W., 418; Bret v. Levett, 13 East, 214. It may, therefore, by analogy well be varied by parol so as to diminish his liability.

See chapter on Transfer. The American cases in affirmance of this point are very numerous. It would incumber a note too much to cite them. The circumstances and relations of the parties may always be shown by parol wherever they may be calculated to assist in the interpretation of any latent ambiguity in a written contract, but evidence of an agreement or understanding between the parties, or of their declaration at or before the time of the execution of a contract, to add, to alter or vary its legal construction, is universally repudiated as inadmissible. To this rule the only recognized exception is fraud or mistake, which may always be shown when the contest is between the original parties to a negotiable instrument. Mistakes cannot of course affect the rights of a third person, a bona fide holder without notice, who took the note or bill for what it appeared on its face. Even fraud as between the original parties can only so far affect the bona fide holder as to throw upon him the burden of proving affirmatively that which the law presumes in general—the consideration which he gave for the note or bill. In Pennsylvania this exception of fraud has been carried so far as in effect to repeal the rule itself. Hill v. Gaw, 4 Penn. St., 493.

<sup>1</sup> Sheppard's Touchstone, 58; see Murray v. Earl of Stair, 2 B. & C., 82 (9 E. C. L. R.), where the Court of King's Bench expressed an opinion that it was not indispensable that express words should be used at the time, but that the condition might be gathered from circumstances.

Hurst's Lessee v. Kirkbride, 1 Binn. (Penn.), 616; Christ v. Diffenbach, 1 S. & R., (Penn.), 464; Clark v. Partridge, 2 Barr. (Penn.), 13; Park v. Chadwick, 8 W. & S. (Penn.), 98. The courts in Pennsylvania exercise a mixed jurisdiction of law and equity. Equity is part of the law of that state, and is administered through common law forms. It is unquestionable that where an important term of a contract, and forming a part of its consideration, has been omitted from the writing, equity

In analogy with a deed, it has been held that a written and signed simple contract may be delivered with an express parol condition

will naturally incline to refer it to the head of mistake, or if that be precluded by the circumstances, to a design at the time to take advantage subsequently of the omission. It might be said with propriety in such cases that the evidence is admissible, leaving to the jury the power of drawing the inference from the subsequent setting up of the written contract in opposition to the parol understanding that it entered into the original intent of the party taking the undue advantage. See Rearich v. Swinehart, 11 Penn. St. (Penn.), 233; Miller v. Henderson, 10 S. & R. (Penn.), 290. See upon the question of fraud, Stark v. Littlejohn, 4 Rand. (Va.), 368; Prentiss v. Russ, 4 Shep. (Me.), 30; Sandford v. Handy, 23 Wend. (N. Y.), 260; Holbrook v. Burt, 22 Pick. (Mass.), 546; Gooch v. Conner, 8 Mo., 391; McMahon v. Spangler, 4 Rand. (Va.), 51; Hunt v. Rousmanier, 8 Wheat. (U. S.), 174; Fishell v. Bell. 1 Clark (Penn.), 37; Jarvis v. Palmer, 11 Paige (N. Y.), 650; Leonard v. Smith. 11 Met. (Mass.), 330; Craig v. Baptist, Ed. Soci. N. Y., 7 B. Mon. (Ky.), 73; Young v. Frost, 5 Gill (Md.), 287.

There are some cases which apparently modify the rule in the text, which it may be well to notice. The reasons which forbid the admission of parol evidence to alter or explain written agreements or other instruments do not apply to those contracts implied by operation of law, such as that which the law implies in respect to the inderser of a note of hand: Susquehanna Co. v. Evans, 4 Wash. (U.S. C. C.). 480; Smith v. Barber, 1 Root (Conn.), 207; contra, Barry v. Morse, 3 N. H., 132; Anderson v. Yell, 15 Ark., 9; Cottrell v. Conklin, 4 Ducr (N. Y.), 45; Prescott Bank v. Caverly, 7 Gray (Mass.), 217; Bank of Albion v. Smith, 27 Barb. (N. Y.), 489; Goodwin v. Davenport, 47 Me., 112. Parol evidence is admissible to show the circumstances under which, the time when, the purpose for which, at whose request the defendant wrote his name at the back of a note: Peirse v. Irvine, 1 Minn., 369: Winslow v. Boyden, Id., 383. The contract of indorsement may be converted by parol evidence into an absolute and unconditional engagement to pay; and it may be explained by the same kind of evidence to mean nothing more than the transfer of the note without recourse to the inderser: Patterson v. Todd, 18 Penn. St., 426; Bircleback v. Wilkins, 22 Id., 26. An indorsement of negotiable paper is not regarded in law as a written contract to pay on condition that the usual demand be made and notice given; but from it is implied a contract to pay on such condition. and such implication is liable to be changed by the exhibition of circumstances inconsistent with it, whether shown orally or in writing. The duty of demand and notice is not a part of the contract, but is merely a step in the remedy, which may be waived by the indorser: Barclay r. Weaver, 19 Penn. St., 396. Under a plea of non est factum, in an action upon a note, parol evidence is admissible to show the character of the delivery: Owings v. Grubb, 6 J. J. Mar. (Ky.), 31. Parol agreement may show the place where payment was to be demanded: Brent v. Bank of the Metropolis, 1 Pet. (U.S.), 92. So in an action on a note given for a horse, to show that the note was to be returned if the horse died: Barlow v. Flemming, 6 Ala., 146. Where a collateral agreement is made between two indorsers of a note, that they will divide the loss 1 stween them, in an action by one of them against the other upon such agreement, parol evidence is admissible to prove the agreement: Phillips r. Preston, 5 How. (U.S.), 278. A written instrument may be contradicted by the party making it when offered in a suit to which a stranger to the instrument is a party: Venable v. Thompson, 11 Ala., 147. A promissory note was signed A. B. (for C D.). It was held that parol evidence was admissible to show that it was intended

## precedent, that it is not to take effect except in a certain event.

to be the note of A. B.: Early v. Wilkinson, 9 Gratt. (Va.), 68. The date of a note is only descriptive, is not necessary to its validity, and may be explained: Dean v. De Lizardi, 24 Miss., 424. Query, especially when it is material as to the time of payment or the time when interest begins to run. A person, not a party to a note. . who is a mere accommodation indorser, may show by parol an agreement between himself and the plaintiff that he was not to be liable in a certain event: Brewer r. Woodward, 53 Vt., 581; Sylvester v. Downer, 20 Vt., 355; Strong v. Riker, 16 Vt., 554; Barrows v. Lane, 5 Vt., 161; Flint v. Day, 9 7 t., 345. See also Graves v. Johnson, 48 Conn., 160; Thacher v. Stevens, 46 Conr.., 561; Schindler v. Mulhuses, 45 Conn., 154; Stack v. Beach, 74 Ind., 571; Colgrove v. Rockwoll, 24 Conn., 584. But this rule does not apply in an action by a holder for value. A. purchased goods of the plaintiff, and being required to give security, made his promissory note payable to the order of plaintiff; the defendant, being requested, put his name on the back of it, and A. then delivered it to the plaintiff; the plaintiff afterwards indorsed, nutting his name above that of the defendant: held that parol evidence was admissible to explain the circumstances under which the note was executed by A. and the defendant, and indorsed by the plaintiff; that the defendant was liable on the note as original maker or promissor, and that the plaintiff, by afterwards indorsing the note, did not change its character or discharge the defendant: Baker v. Scott, 5 Richardson, 305. In an action to charge as an original promissor a person who put his name on the back of a note to which he was not a party, parol evidence is admissible to show that he signed as an indorser and that such was the understanding of the parties at the time: Lewis v. Harvey, 18 Mo., 74. Parol evidence is admissible to show the intent under which a note was indorsed by a stranger thereto: Rev e. Simpson, 22 How. (U.S.), 341. In a suit by the payee of a promissory note against one who indorsed it in blank at the time it was given, parol evidence is admissible to show the real nature of the transaction: Riley v. Gerrish, 9 Cushing, 104. A payce and first indorser cannot recover against the second indorser on the note by parol evidence that he intended to become bound to him: Hauck v. Hund, 1 Bos. (N. Y.), 431. Parol evidence is admissible to show that parties are co-sureties: Clapp v. Rice, 13 Gray (Mass.), 403. A promissory note by three makers—the word "sureties" being written opposite the names of the last two-though prima facie they are co-sureties, yet it can be explained by parol evidence: Apgar v. Hiler, 24 N. J. L., 812. If two persons indorse a note, it may be shown that they did it as joint sureties: Dunn v. Wade, 23 Mo., 207. Where all the makers are on the face of the note principals, parol evidence is not admissible to show, in a suit against them, that one is surety for the other: Hendrickson v. Hutchinson, 5 Dutcher (N. J.), 180. The relation of surety may be shown by parol, but not to affect a holder without notice; Summerhill v. Tapp, 52 Ala., 227. A bill was drawn "payable on the 6-9 Jan." Evidence of bankers and merchants was allowed to show that 9 meant the last day of grace: Kilsey v. Hibbs, 13 Ohio St., 340.

The want, failure or illegality of consideration may be established by parol testimony between the parties to a note: Reeve v. Doughty, 19 La. Ann., 164. In au action by the indorsee against the maker, the defendant may show that it was made for the accommodation and at the request of the plaintiff, and without consideration: Corlies v. Howe, 11 Gray (Mass.), 125. An indorsee of a note payable to Aaron "Formey" may aver a promise to pay Aaron "Formby," by the name of Aaron Formey, and may show by evidence that "Formby" was the person really meant; Taylor v. Strickland, 37 Ala., 642. Parol evidence may be received of an

And the instrument may be so delivered, not only to a stranger,

agreement by all the parties to a note that payment shall be made at a particular place; Meyer v. Hibsher, 47 N. Y., 265.

In general, the legal effect of a note or bill cannot be varied by parol evidence; Fields v. Stunston, 1 Cold. (Tenn.), 40 Anspach v. Bast, 2 P. F. Smith (Penn.), 356; Howes v. Austin, 35 Ill., 396; Lawrence v. Schmidt, I., 440; Billan v. Hereklebrath, 23 Ind., 71; Butler v. Paine, 8 Minn., 321; Exeter Bank v. Stowell, 16 N. H., 61; Heath r. Derry Bank, 44 Id., 174; Tower r. Richardson, 6 Allen (Mass.), 351; Foy v. Blackstone, 31 Illinois, 538; Arnold v. Sprague, 34 Vt., 402; Myers v. Sunderland, 4 Greene (Iowa), 567; Morse v. Low, 44 Vt., 561; Kaufman v. Barringer, 20 La. Ann., 419; Skillen v. Richmond, 48 Barb. (N. Y.), 428; Griffith v. Furry, 30 III., 251; Roane v. Greene, 24 Ark., 210; Guy v. Bebend, 41 Cal. 322; Mitchell v. Noell, 39 Ind., 399; Walker v. Crawford, 56 Ill., 414; True v. Shepard, 51 N. H., 501; Neist v. Hart, 73 Penn. St., 286; Hych v. Tinwinkel, 26 Mich., 93; Mathews v. Crosby, 26 N. H., 21; Towne v. Rice, 122 Mass., 67. A negotiable instrument in the hands of a bona fide holder is not open to explanation by parol evidence. All conditions and qualifications which are to affect its character must appear on its face. Evansville etc., R. R. Co. v. Dunn, 17 Ind., 603; McGrath v. Barnes, 13 S. C., 328; Scafie v. Beall, 43 Ga., 333; Cunningham v. Wardwell, 12 Me., 466; Rice v. Ragland, 10 Humph. (Tenn.), 545; Brown v. Wiley, 20 How. (U.S.), 442; Rodgers v. Rossor, 57 Ga., 319; McSherry v. Brooks, 46 Md., 103; Miller v. White, 7 Blackf. (Ind.), 491; Giddens v. Harrison, 59 Ala., 481; Sears v. Wright, 21 Mc., 278; Jones v. Shaw, 67 Mo., 667; Rockmore v. Davenport, 14 Tex., 602. It is indispensable to the value of such paper and the protection of commercial business that such paper should carry on its face all the qualifications to which it is subject, and that no defence should be admissible to defeat it except that which is ascertainable from an inspection of the instrument itself. If a maker or indorser of such paper could be permitted to defeat the note by proof of some condition which has not been complied with it would operate to effectually displace the writing and substitute in its place a parol agreement of a character entirely different from that expressed in the instrument itself and would destroy the value of such paper: Tucker v. Tucker, 113 Ind., 272; Singer Manufacturing Co. v. Forsyth, 108 Ind., 334; Carr v. Hayes, 110 Ind., 408. Where a negotiable note is signed by "A., agent," parol evidence is not admissible to show that A. acted merely as agent in the transaction, and that C. was the real principal. The rule is, that a person who takes negotiable paper, contracts with him, who, on its face, is a party thereto, and with no other person: Draper r. Mass. Steam Heating Co., 5 Allen (Mass.), 340; Fuller v. Hooper, 3 Gray (Mass.), 334; Barlow r. Cong'l. Soc., 8 Allen (Mass.), 460. And this is also said to be the rule as between the immediate parties to the transaction: Anderton v. Sharp, 17 Ohio St., 125; De Witt r. Walton, 9 N. Y., 571. But see contra Beaso r. Pioneer Mining Co., 66 Cal., 451; Mechanics' Bank v. Bank of Columbia, 5 Wheat. (U.S.), 336; Metcalf v. Williams, 104 U.S., 180; Goodwin v. Roberts, L. R., 10 Ex., 327. Where it is held that where there are circumstances rendering it doubtful whether the person signing intended to bind himself or some principal the facts may be shown as between the original parties: Laflin, etc., Co., r. Sinsheimer, 48 Md., 411; Bradlee v. Boston Glass Co., 16 Pick. (Mass.), 317. Haile r. Pierce, 330. Where goods are consigned to a person a promise to accept the consignor's drafts "with bills of lading annexed" is subject to a long usage of trade existing which is known to both parties or which is so general that both parties ought to know it. Therefore, where a consignee who is expecting a consignment of goods for sale on commission wrote a letter to a bank saying that he would honor the consignors' drafts with bill of lading annexed was held to be subbut by one party to the other. And evidence of the parol condition is admissible not only when it is relied on as a condition, but also when an action is brought upon it as an agreement.

ject to a usage of trade known to both parties that the consignor was not to draw an amount exceeding three-fourths of the value of the consigned goods and that the consignee was not liable beyond that amount: Fisk v. First National Bank, Penn. St. Of course, however, if the usage is expressly excluded or the terms of the agreement are such as to show that it was intended to form a part of the contract it will have no effect: Hirsch v. North, 40 Penn. St., 241.

Upon the question whether the contract implied by indorsement may be varied by parol evidence, the cases are not harmonious. That it may, see Benton v. Willard, 17 N. H., 293; Maynard v. Fellows, 43 N. H., 255; Sweet v. McAllister, 4 Allen (Mass.), 353; Davis v. Morgan, 64 N. C., 371; Ross v. Espy, 16 P. F. Smith (Penn.), 481; Kuntz v. Temple, 48 Mo., 71; Rockhill v. Moore, 1 Clark, 392; Denton r. Lytle, 4 Bush (Ky.), 597; Lewis v. Williams, 4 Bush (Ky.), 678; Smith v. Morrill, 54 Me., 48; Sturtevant v. Randall, 53 Me., 149; Patton v. Pearson, 55 Me., 39. That it cannot, see Campbell v. Robbins, 29 Ind., 271; Woodward v. Foster, 18 Gratt. (Va.), 200; Wright v. Morse, 9 Gray (Mass.), 337; Peckham v. Gilman, 7 Minn., 446; Williams r. Smith, 58 Me., 135; McGaughey r. Elliott, 18 Ind., 121; Goldman r. Davis. 23 Cal., 256; Johnson v. Crane, 16 N. H., 68; Drake v. Markle, 21 Ind., 433; Bartlett t. Lee, 33 Ga., 491; Patton v. Pearson, 57 Me., 423; Holton v. McCormick, 45 Ind., 411; Charles v. Denis, 42 Wis., 56; Easton v. McMahon, 1 Id., 484; Dall v. Gear, 38 Conn., 15. In an action upon a note containing an indorsement without date or signature, "The conditions of the within note are as follows: B. (the payee) or bearer is not to ask or expect payment of said note until C.'s (the maker's) old mill is sold for a fair price"-it was hold admissible to show by parol that the indorsement was on the note at the time at was signed, and if so, turned it into a mere agreem at Blake v. Coleman, 22 Wis., 415; Davis v. Brown, 94 U.S., 423.

Davis r. Jones, 17 C. B., 625 (84 E. C. L. R.); Pym r. Campbell, 6 E. & B., 370 (88 E. C. L. R.); Wallis v. Littell, C. B., M. T., 1861; 31 L. J., 101 C. P.; Lara v. Hacon, E. T., C, P., 1863; Rodgers v. Hadley, 32 L. J., Ex. 241. In this last case parol evidence was held admissible to show that a contract signed and delivered was never intended to be the real contract between the parties.

Hindley v. Lacey, 34 L. J., C. P., 7. A plea by the drawer of a bill setting up an oral agreement before or at the time of drawing the bill, that the drawer should not be liable to pay it until a time subsequent to that when it would by law be payable, is bad: Rackmore v. Davenport, 14 Tex., 602. When a note is indersed by several in the usual manner, there being nothing on the face of the note to show a joint indersement, parel evidence is not admissible to show this: Williams v. Smith, 45 Me., 135. Evidence is admissible to prove that when a note is dated in December, and made payable on "the 25th of December next," December instant was intended: McCrary v. Caskey, 27 Ga., 54.

Like deeds, promissory notes can be delivered as escrows, to take effect only upon the happenings of a certain event: Foy v. Blackstone, 31 Ill., 538. A promissory note when once delivered to the payce will not be considered as an escrow. If no fraud be charged, proof of an oral agreement by which the note was to become legally binding, not from its delivery according to its tenor, but on the happening of a certin contingency, is inadmissible: Massmann v. Holcher, 49 Mo., 87. A bona fide holder for value without notice may enforce payment against the maker of a note delivered as an escrow, and surrendered to the payce without authority: Fearing

When such a doctrine is extended to a bill of exchange or promissory note, it is obvious that it must not be applied to the injury of a holder for value without notice.

An agreement to renew, without more, is an agreement to renew once only. But the party liable is not bound to apply during the currency of the bill; he may do so within a reasonable time after the bill falls due.

A defendant has a right at the trial to call on the plaintiff to read any indorsements that may be on the bill."

Though it be necessary that the agreement affecting the operation of the bill or note should be in writing, it is not necessary in pleading to aver that it is in writing.

- c. Clark, 82 Mass., 74; see also Jones v. Shaw, 67 Mo., 667; Stewart v. Anderson, 59 Ind., 375; Bank v. Strang, 72 Iil., 559; Bodley v. Higgins, 73 Ill., 375; Henshaw v. Dutton, 59 Mo., 139; Giddings v. Giddings, 51 Vt., 227; Howe v. Oulst, 25 Gratt. (Va.), 1. As to condition that others shall also sign: Ayres v. Milroy, 53 Mo., 516; Majors v. McNeilly, 7 Heisk. (Tenn.), 294.
- Innes v. Munro, I Exch. 473. See as to an agreement to renew being used as a defence to an action. Flight v. Gray, 3 C. B., N. S., 320 (91 E. C. L. R.); Webb r. Spicer, 13 Q. B., 856, 894 (66 E. C. L. R.); Salmon v. Webb, 3 H. L. Cas., 510. The point did not arise in Innes v. Monro.
  - <sup>2</sup> Maillard v. Page, L. R., 5 Ex., 312.
- <sup>3</sup> Richards v. Frankum, 9 C. & P., 221 (38 E. C. L. R.). As to agreements by clerks in fraud of their employers, see Bosanquet v. Foster, 9 C. & P., 659 (38 E. C. L. R.); Bosanquet v. Corser, 9 C. & P., 664.
- 4 Kearns r. Durell, 18 L. J., C, P., 28; 6 C. B., 596 (60 E. C. L. R.), s. c. See Gilbert v. Whitmarsh, 8 Q. B., 969 (55 E. C. L. R.); Austin v. Young, L. R., 4 C. P., 553.