cipal in hazard as to render it liable to partnership creditors, yet it is no further hazarded than in the case of every other loan, namely, by the risk of the borrower's insolvency.

Usury may be committed within the express words of the statute, not only by advancing money, but by advancing \*goods to the statute, be repaid in money. If the goods are forced upon the borrower in lieu of money, as, for example, upon the party applying for the discount of a bill, the transaction is suspicious, and it lies on the lender to show not only that the goods were fairly worth the sum at which they were estimated, but that they would have been easily available in the borrower's hands for raising that sum by resale. But where the lender requests or prefers to take goods, it lies on him to show that they were estimated above their real value.

In Ireland, in many of the British colonies, and in various foreign states, more than five per cent. interest is allowed by the law of the place. Whenever the contract is made abroad it is not usurious here, because the utmost interest which the law of the place allows is reserved. But it often happens that the transaction is partly in one country and partly in another, so that whether it is to be considered as a domestic or foreign contract becomes a question of great nicety. A. resides in England, B. at Gibraltar, where the legal rate of interest is six per cent., and where a bill on England at ninety days is reckoned as cash. It was agreed that A. should consign to B. goods for sale, and that upon the receipt of the invoice, B. should remit to A. bills on London at ninety days' date, and charge interest at six per cent., from the date of the bills. Lord Tenterden: "The case must be considered as if the bargain for the advances had been made at Gibraltar and not in London."4

The statutes 14 Geo. 3, c. 79, and 1 & 2 Geo. 4, c. 51, the latter repealed, and re-enacted by 3 Geo. 4, c. 47, reciting that

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> Morse v. Wilson, 4 T. R., 353.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup> Davis v. Hardacre, 2 Camp., 375.

<sup>\*</sup>Coombe v. Miles, 2 Camp., 553. A contract to lend a portion of the money wanted by the borrower, on condition that he will receive stock at a price much above the market value, to make up the deficiency, is usurious: Stribbling v. Bank, 5 Rand. (Va.), 132; Valley Bank v. Stribbling, 7 Leigh (Va.), 26; Bank v. Arthur, 3 Gratt. (Va.), 173; Archer v. Putman, 12 S. & M. (Miss.), 286.

Harvey v. Archbold, 3 B. & C., 626 (10 E. C. L. R.); 5 D. & R., 500. s. c.

doubts had arisen on the point, enact that all mortgages or securities of or concerning any lands, tenements, hereditaments, slaves, cattle, or other things, in Ireland or the West India colonies, whereby interest is reserved above the rate of five per cent., but not exceeding the rate allowed by the law of that place, are valid, though executed in Great Britain, as well as all bonds and covenants, original or collateral, for further securing money so advanced. It will be observed that these statutes do not include [\*320] bills and notes, and, therefore, it is a doubtful \*point whether a bill or note not exempted from the usury laws by the recent statutes, and given in England as a collateral security for an Irish, colonial or foreign debt, with more than five per cent interest, be legal.¹ It seems clear, however, that if the original security be cancelled, and a bill or note be taken as a substituted security, but carrying the original interest, such a bill or note is usurious.¹

If an usurious bill or note be in the hands of a holder, who was either a party to or cognizant of the usurious transaction, and he give it up for a substituted security, as a note, or even if he deliver up this note for a further security, as a bond, the original usurious taint infects both the subsequent securities, and either is void. But, if the party taking a substituted security had no notice of the usury, the security is good. Yet, before 58 Geo. 3, c. 93, if a party had taken an usurious bill without notice of the usury, and afterwards, upon learning the defect, took a substituted bill, such second bill was void. But, if the substituted security be for principal and legal interest only, expunging the bad part of the debt, it is good. And where a bill or note is given on a consideration, partly usurious and partly legal, the holder cannot recover even for the good part, though the whole amount of the bill should not be sufficient to cover that.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> See Lord Ranelagh v. Champante, 2 Vern., 395; 1 Eq. Ca. Ab., 289.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup> Glasfurd v. Laing, 1 Camp., 149; Dewar v. Span., 3 T. R., 426.

<sup>\*</sup> Marsh v. Martindale, 3 B. & B., 154.

<sup>4</sup> Cuthbert v. Healey, 8 T. R., 390; 3 Esp., 22, s. c.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>5</sup> Chapman v. Black, 2 B. & Ald., 588; Amory v. Merryweather, 2 B. & C., 573 (9 E. C. L. R.); 4 D. & R., 86, s. c.

Preston v. Jackson, 2 Stark., 237 (3 E. C. L. R.); Barnes v. Hedley, 1 Camp., 157
 -180, d.; 2 Taunt., 184, s. c.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>7</sup> Harrison v. Hannel, 5 Taunt., 780 (1 E. C. L. R.); 1 Marsh., 349, s. c. 466

It makes no difference that the contract is comprised in two separate instruments.1

Before the late statute, if the bill were tainted with usury in its inception, or if it was necessary for the holder to make title through any party guilty of usury, he could not recover, though had no notice of the usury. But now, by the 58 Geo., c. 93, no bill or note, though given for an usurious consideration, or upon an usurious contract, shall be void in the hands of an indorsee for value, unless he had notice at the time of taking the bill that it had been given for an usurious consideration.

\*The 3 & 4 Will. 4, c. 98, s. 7, exempts from the operation of the usury laws bills and notes not having more than three months to run. It seems that a bill or note good within this act is not invalidated by being part of a real security.

On this statute it has been decided that a warrant of attorney given to secure a bill, which, but for the act, would have been usurious, is within the protection of the statute.<sup>5</sup> The act applies to a note payable to A. or order on demand, and give for money lent on an agreement to pay 5l. over and above all lawful interest for the loan during such time as A. should forebear, and give day of payment for the same.<sup>6</sup>

The 1 Vict., c. 80, a temporary act, exempted from the operation of the usury laws bills and notes not having more than twelve months to run.

The 2 & 3 Vict., c. 37, exempts from the operation of the usury laws bills and notes not having more than twelve months to run, and all contracts<sup>7</sup> for the loan of money above the sum of ten

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> Roberts v. Trenayne, Cro. Jac., 507; White v. Wright, 3 B. & C., 273 (10 E. C. L. R.); 5 D. & R., 10, s. c.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup> Lowes v. Mazzared + 1 Stark., 385 (2 E. C. L. R.).

This statute does not apply to a note in the hands of a party who has taken it in payment of an antecedent debt; see also 5 & 6 Will. 4, c. 41; Vallance r. Siddell, 6 Ad. & Ell., 932 (33 E. C. L. R.); 2 N. & P., 78, s. c. In an action brought before the passing of this act, but tried after, the defendant may avail himself of 9 Anne, c. 14, and is entitled to a nonsuit if he prove the bill to be given for a gaming consideration: Hitchcock r. Way, 6 Ad. & Ell., 943 (33 E. C. L. R.); 2 Nev. & P., 72, s. c.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>4</sup> Clack v. Sainsbury, 11 C. B., 695 (73 E. C. L. R.); Nixon v. Phillips, 7 Exch., 188; Semple v. Cornwall, 10 Exch., 617; Ex parte Warrington, 3 De Gex, M. & G., 159; 22 L. J., Bank, 33, s. c.; Langton v. Haynes, 25 L. J., Exch., 319; 1 H. & N., 366, s. c.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>5</sup> Connop v. Meaks, 4 Nev. & Man., 302; 2 Ad. & E., 326 (29 E. C. L. R.), s. c.; Lane v. Horlock, 25 L. J., Chan., 253; 5 H. L. Cas., 580, s. c.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>5</sup> Vallance v. Siddell, supra, note <sup>5</sup>.

<sup>7</sup> Thibault v. Gibson, 12 M. & W., 88.

pounds, providing that the act shall not extend to loans on landed security. But a loan of money on security of a lease, a warrant of attorney and a promissory note are not protected.

The question is, on what security was the money lent? If on a mortgage, and the bill were taken afterwards, there is no valid loan; if on a bill, and the mortgage were taken afterwards, there is a good [\*322] debt. Where a party \*borrowed a sum of 6700l. on the security of a mortgage and a promissory note, which was discounted by the lender at five per cent. so that the interest to be paid was more than five per cent. on the sum actually advanced, the mortgage was held valid, the jury finding that the primary object of the parties was the discounting of the note. The discount of bills is not illegal, though the amount be secured by a warrant of attorney, which may become a charge on land.

The statute 2 & 3 Vict., c. 37,6 is not disabling or retrospective, and therefore if a real security be given for the smount of bills discounted at more than five per cent. before the statute under the 1 Vict., c. 80, the real security is not tainted with usury.

But now the statute 17 & 18 Vict., c. 90, sweeps away the usury laws altogether. And it has been held that bills accepted since the repeal in renewal of usurious bills accepted before the repeal are not without consideration.<sup>8</sup>

- <sup>1</sup> So that, as the law recently stood, persons who have security to offer, and require no protection, were protected; but those who had no security to offer, and therefore must need protection, were unprotected.
- <sup>2</sup> Berrington v. Collis, 5 Bing., N. C., 332 (35 E. C. L. R.); 7 Scott, 302, s. c. As to renewals and agreements to give bills at a future time, see Holt c. Miers, 5 M. & W., 168; King v. Braddon, 10 Ad. & E., 675 (37 E. C. L. R.); 2 Per. & D., 546, s. c.
- \* Downes v. Garbutt, 12 L. J., Q. B., 269; 2 Dowl. N. S., 939, 8. c.; Fussell v. Daniel, 10 Exch., 581; and see Hodgkiuson v. Wyatt, 4 Q. B., 749 (45 E. C. L. R.); Follett v. Moore, 19 L. J., Exch., 6; Exch., 410, s. c. Exparte Warrington, 3 De Gex, M. & G., 159; 22 L. J., Bank., 33, s. c. But see Langton v. Haynes, 25 L. J., Exch., 319; 1 H. & N., 366, s. c.
- 4 This transaction was before the statute 2 & 3 Vict., c. 37. Doe r. King, 12 L. J., Exch., 320; 11 M. & W., 333, s. c. Query, whether an advance on the deposit of a policy of insurance, though the insurance company have real securities, and though the assured be a member of the company, is a loan secured by an interest in land: Marsh v. The Attorney-General, 5 Beavan, 433.
  - <sup>5</sup> Lane r. Horlock, 16 L. J., Q. B., 87; 25 L. J., Chan., 253; 5 H. L., Cas., 580, 8. c.
- 6 This act was extended by the 4 & 5 Vict., c. 54, to the 1st January, 1884; by 6 & 7 Vict., c., 45, to the 1st January, 1846; by the 8 & 9 Vict., c. 102, to the 1st January, 1851, and by the 13 & 14 Vict., c. 56, to 1st January, 1856.
  - <sup>‡</sup> Bell v. Coleman, 15 L. J., C. P., 2; 2 C. B., 268 (52 E. C. L. R.), 8. C.
  - 8 Flight v. Read, 32 L. J., 265; 1 H. & C., 703, s. c.

In a declaration or plea, grounded on the statute of 12 Anne, st. 2, c. 16, it was not necessary to negative the exception introduced by the 2 & 3 Vict., c 37. The exception must have come from the other side.<sup>1</sup>

And in stating that exception it lay on the party introducing it to aver not only that the contract was after passing of the statute of Victoria, but that it did not relate to the land.

<sup>1</sup> Thibault r. Gibson, 12 M. & W., 88. Washbourne v. Burrows, 16 L. J., Exch., 266; 1Exch., 107, s. c.

## OF THE ALTERATION OF A BILL OR NOTE.

| Effect of Alteration at Common |     | When the Alteration of the In-    |     |
|--------------------------------|-----|-----------------------------------|-----|
| Law,                           | 323 | strument extinguishes the Debt, . | 328 |
| Of Deeds,                      | 323 | Renewal of altered Bill,          | 328 |
| Of Bills and Notes,            | 324 | When Alteration need not be       |     |
| Under the Stamp Acts,          | 1   |                                   | 329 |
| Where an Alteration will not   |     |                                   |     |
| vitiate,                       | 325 | Requisites of Plea,               | 329 |
| Before Bill issued             | 326 | BURDEN OF PROOF,                  | 329 |
| In Correction of Mistake       | 327 |                                   |     |

In treating of the alteration of a negotiable instrument, we will consider the effect of alteration; first, at common law; and, secondly, under the Stamp Acts.

First, at common law. If a deed, well and sufficiently made in its creation, shall he afterwards altered by rasure, interlining, addition, drawing a line through the words, though they be still legible, or by writing new letters upon the old in any material place or part of it, either by the party that hath the deed, or any other whomsoever, unless the alteration be by him who is bound by the deed (for he shall not take advantage of his own wrong), or by his consent, the deed has lost its force, and is become void.

And by recent solemn decision, a deed, bill of exchange, promissory note, guaranty, or any other executory written contract, is avoided by an alteration in a material part, made while it is in the custody of the plaintiffs, although that alteration be by a stranger.<sup>2</sup>

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> Sheppard's Touchstone, 68. And a deed is not it seems vacated at common law if the alteration, though material, were with the consent of all the parties: Markham v. Gonaston, Cro. Eliz., 627; Zouch v. Clay, 2 Lev., 35; Com. Dig. Fait, F. 1.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup> Davidson v. Cooper, 11 M. & W., 778; affirmed in error, 13 M. & W., 343; Bank of Hindustan v. Smith, 36 L J., C. P., 241. An alteration by a stranger, though material, will not render the instrument inoperative: Nicholls v. Johnson, 10 Conn., 192; Medlin v. Platt Co., 8 Mo., 235; Davis v. Carlisle, 5 Ala., 707; Ford v. Ford, 17 Pick. (Mass.), 418; Waring v. Smyth, 2 Barb. Ch. (N. Y.), 119; Lee v. Alexander, 9 B. Mon. (Ky.), 25; Labbering v. Kohlbrecher, 22 Mo., 596. Alteration by payee's wife, without his knowledge, avoids the note: Morrison v. Welty, 18 Md., 169 An alteration by the agent of the maker in good faith does not avoid it: Van Brunt v. Egoff, 35 Barb. (N. Y.), 501.

For a person who has the custody of an instrument is bound to preserve it in its integrity. And as it would be avoided by his

Where a note or bill is complete and perfect on its face when delivered, if material additions are made thereto or alterations are made therein even though by a person to whom it has been entrusted by the maker to be delivered to the payee, it is thereby invalidated, even in the hands of an innocent holder for value; and this is so even though the alterations or changes were made by taking advantage of spaces which have been left in the note or bill by the maker thereof: Wood v. Steele, 6 Wall. (U.S.), 80; Worrall v. Gheen, 39 Penn. St., 388: Greenfield Sav. Bank v. Stowell, 123 Mass., 196; McGrath v. Clark, 56 N. Y., 34; Goodman v. Eastman, 4 H., 455; Holmes v. Trumper, 22 Mich., 427: Burrows v. Klunk, 3 L. R. A. (Md.), 576; Bank v. Lockwood, 13 W. Va., 416; Knoxville Nat. Bank v. Clark, 51 Iowa, 264; Trigg v. Taylor, 27 Mo., 245.

There are a class of cases, however, in which it has been held that where the maker of the note has been guilty of negligence leaving spaces which makes it possible for alterations and changes to be made without rendering it obvious that such changes have been made, that note is not invalidated because of the negligence of the maker in that respect. This doctrine is predicted upon the principle that where one of two innocent parties must suffer, that one must suffer whose negligence has permitted the third party to commit the wrong: Young v. Grote, 4 Bing., 253; Scotland Co. Bank v. O'Connell, 23 Mo., App., 165; Blakely v. Johnson, 13 Bush. (Ky.), 196; Isnard v. Torries, 10 La. Ann., 103; Vanduser v. Howe, 21 N. Y., 531; Garrard v. Hadden, 67 Penn. St., 82.

But there is a strong disposition on the part of the Courts to repudiate this doctrine and the doctrine of the case of Young v. Grote, ante, which is generally relied upon as an authority for this rule, has been seriously questioned if not entirely overruled by the English Courts. See Baxendale v. Bennett, L. R., 3 Q. B., Div., 525; also, Bank of Ireland v. Evans, 5 H. L. C., 389.

Where blanks are left in a note or bill by the maker, the holder of such an obligation may fill the same, as the holder is treated as being invested by the maker with the power to make the instrument complete and perfect and to insert anything therein essential to make it so: Angle v. N. W. L. Ins. Co., 92 U. S., 392; Vanduser v. Howe, 21 N. Y., 531; Page v. Morrell, 3 Keys. (N. Y.), 117; Kitchen v. Place, 41 Barb. (N. Y.), 465; Weyerhauser v. Dunn, 100 N. Y., 155.

In the case last cited the form of the note in question as signed by the indorser gave no indication that it was to draw interest at all and left no blank for that purpose. At its commencement, in the place usually occupied by the date, a blank was left between the word "Indianapolis" and the figures "1875." Another blank existed at the beginning of the note before the words "after date." The printed form ran on the usual way until a remaining blank was left between the words "to the order of" and the word "dollars," which ended the body of the note. The Court held that the holder of the note was justified in inserting in the note the name of the payoe and the principal sum to be paid, but was not authorized to write in after the word "dollars" the words "with interest" as there was nothing after the word "dollars" to indicate to the eye that there was any incompleteness in the instrument or that anything had been intentionally or accidently omitted.

In Cannon v. Grigsby, 116 Ill., 151, the note had a blank after the words "payable at," which was filled in by the payce by inserting the words "Blandinsville, Illinois." The rate of interest was also changed, and it was claimed that the partner who signed the firm name to the notes subsequently ratified the alteration and the court so found. It was held that the latter question was one of fact, and

[\*324] fraud \*in altering it himself, so it shall be avoided by his laches in suffering another to alter it.

that the finding of the lower court was conclusive. Contra, and holding that an alteration by one joint maker without the consent of the others, invalidates it, See Mersman r. Werges, 11? U.S., 141. Whether it injures or benefits the other maker, see Wood r. Steele, 6 Wall. (U.S.), 80.

As to the effect of filling blanks where there is an obvious omission, see Angle v. N. W. Ins. Co., 92 U. S., 330; Elliott v. Levings, 54 Ill., 213; McGrath v. Clark, 56 N. Y., 34; Kitchen v. Place, 41 Barb. (N. Y.), 462; Redlich v. Doll, 54 N. Y., 234.

The rule may be said to be, that, where a party to a negotiable instrument entrusts it to another, obviously incomplete, the instrument carries on its face implied authority to perfect it by filling the blanks; but he may not make a new instrument by erasing what is written or printed nor by filling blanks repugnant to the plainly expressed intention of the same, as shown by its printed or written terms: Clifford J. in Angle r. Ins. Co.; ante, Goodman r. S. mils, 20 How. (U.S.), 361; Banks r. Neal, 22 Id., 108; Bank r. Douglass, 31 Co., 180.

The party to whom the instrument is entrusted, is treated as agent of the maker to fill the blanks necessary to perfect it: Violet v. Patton, 5 Cranch (U.S.), 142.

A material alteration of a note or bill by a party without authority invalidates it. and destroys its enforcibility as a contract or obligation. Such alterations are treated as a fraud in law and rules all the parties affected thereby: Smith v. Mace. 44 N. H., 553; Porter v. Doby, 2 Rich. Eq. (S. C.); 49; Richmond M'f'g Co. r. Davis. 7 Blackf. (Ind.), 412; Washington Savings Bank v. Cecky, 51 Mo., 272; Wheelock v. Freeman, 13 Pick. (Mass.), 165; Boston v. Benson, 12 Cush. (Mass.), 61; Stoddard r. Pennimore, 108 Mass., 366; Hirschmann v. Budd, L. R., 8 Exch., 171. A material alteration is one which changes the obligations or relations of the parties to the note or bill or one which changes in some respects the legal effect thereof and it is impuaterial whether the change is prejudicial or not: Johnson r. May, 76 Ind., 293; Herrick v. Baldwin, 17 Minn., 209; Creighead v. McLoney, 99 Penn. St., 211; White v. Johns, 21 Minn., 3-7; Robinson v. Reed, 46 Ia., 219; Laub r. Payne, 46 Ia., 550; Osborne v. Van Houten, 45 Mich., 444; Kelly r. Trumble, 74 Ill., 428; Sharp v. Orme, 61 Ala., 263; Crawford v. Dexter, 5 Sawyer (U. S. C. C.), 201; Burlingane v. Brewster, 79 Ill., 515; Kline v. Raymond, 70 Ind., 271; Rowley v. Jewett, 56 Ia., 492. In this country alterations made by a stranger are treated as a mere spoliation which does not discharge a party to the instrument and it may be declared on as originally made: Drum v. Drum, 133 Mass., 566; Colston v. Arnot, 57 N. Y., 253; Lisle v. Rogers, 18 B. Mon. (Ky.), 528; Davis v. Carlisle, 6 Ala., 707; Union National Bank v. Roberts, 45 Wis., 373; Piersall v. Grimes, 30 Ind., 129; Longenbergerv. Croager, 48 Cal., 147; Robinson r. Berryman, 22 Mo., App., 509; Brooks r. Allen, 62 Ind., 401; Lee v. Alexander, 9 B. Mon. (Ky.), 25; Dinsmore v. Duncan, 57 N. Y., 573. An alteration made by the holder of a note or bill defeats his right to recover thereon: Van Auken v. Hornbeck, 14 N. J. L., 178; First National Bank v. Fricke, 75 Mo., 178; Thompson v. Massey, 41 Ohio St., 307; Brooks v. Allen, 62 Ind., 491. Fraud is presumed: Love v. Dilley, 64 Md., 238; Eckert v. Pickel, 59 Ia., 545 The question as to whether the alteration is material is one of law for the court: Steele v. Spencer, 1 Pet. (U.S.), 552; Dowers v. Jewel, 2 N. H., 543; Hill r. Calvin, 4 How. (Miss.), 231; Overton v. Matthews, 35 Ark., 146. But see Moye v. Herndon, 30 Miss., 110; also Boyd v. Botherson, 10 Wend. (N. Y.), 93, where the question of alteration and its materiality were both left to the jury.

An alteration made merely to correct a mistake is not material as correcting the 472

The rules relating to alteration or rasure of deeds apply (at least for the most part) to other written contracts, and to bills and notes.

name of one of the parties: Derby v. Thrall, 44 Vt., 413. See also on the general subject, Shepard v. Whetstone, 51 Ia., 457; Jessup v. Dennison, 2 Dis. (Ohio), 150; Hunt r. Adams, 6 Mass., 519; McRaven v. Crisler, 53 Miss., 542; Driker r. Franz, 7 Bush. (Ky.), 273; Ames v. Colbrun, 11 Gray (Mass.), 390. An alteration which is both fraudulent and material is held to discharge both the debt and the note: Ballard r. Franklin Ins. Co., 81 Ind., 239; Meyer v. Hunecke, 55 N. Y., 412; Woodworth v. Anderson, 63 Ia., 503; Smith v. Mace, 44 N. H., 552; but where the alteration is not fraudulent it does not discharge the debt although it invalidates the obligation: States Savings Bank r. Schafer, 9 Neb., 1; Lewis v. Cramer, 3 Md., 265; Hunt v. Gray, 35 N. J. L., 227; Lewis v. Schenck, 18 N. J. Eq., 459; York v. Jones, 43 N. J. L., 332; Warren r. Leighton, 3 Harr. (Del.), 404; Vogel v. Ripper, 34 Ill., 100; Matteson v. Ellsworth, 33 Wis., 488; Wallace v. Wallace, 8 Brad. (Ill.), 69; Morrison v. Higgins, 53 Ia., 76; Clough v. Seay, 49 Ia., 111; Sullivan v. Rudisall, 63 Ia., 158; (lillett v. Smith, 18 Hun. (N. Y.), 10. And this is so whether the alteration is made by the party himself or by an authorized agent if it was done honestly and in good faith: Nickels v. Johnson, 10 Conn., 192; Langdon v. Paul, 20 Vt., 217; Union Bank v. Cook, 2 Cranch (U. S. C. C.), 218; Park v. Blover, 23 Tex., 469; Reed r. Kemp, 16 Ill., 445; Major v. Hanson, 2 Biss. (U. S. C. C.), 195; Brownell v. Winnie, 29 N. Y., 400; Pequawket Bridge v. Mathes, 8 N. H., 139; Brennan v. Ayer, 35 N. H., 351; Rhodes v. Castner, 12 Allen (Mass.), 130; Shelton v. Dearing, 10 B. Mon. (Ky.), 405; Broughton v. West, 8 Ga., 248; Montgomery R. R. Co. v. Hurst, 9 Ala., 513; State r. Dean, 40 Mo., 464, Huntington v. Finch, 3 Ohio St., 445. The question as to what presumption is raised from an alteration or interlineation upon the face of a written instrument is one in reference to which the authorities are conflicting and irreconcilable, but the better rule would seem to be that the presumption is that it is a legitimate part or the instrument and was prior to its execution, imposing the burden upon the maker to show that it was altered after delivery: Wilson r. Hayes, Minn. Where a note, bill or check has been fraudulently raised the holder who has paid full value for the same is precluded from recovering even the original amount named therein from the maker: Flanagan v. Nat'l Bank of Dover, 13 St. Rep. (N. Y.), 826; Mayer v. Huneke, 55 N. Y., 412; Booth v. Powers, 56 N. Y., 31.

The rule being that when a negotiable instrument constitutes in itself the only obligation existing against its maker, all remedies are lost by its fraudulent alteration and the law will not create a new contract to supply the place of the one destroyed. Ruger, C. J., in Crawford v. West Side Bank, 100 N. Y., 58. See also bearing upon this question: Whitney v. Schneider, 2 Lans. (N. Y.), 478; St. Nicholas Bk. v. Nat'l. Bk. of N. Y., 3 Weekly Dig. (Peun.), 583; Goodman v. Eastman, 4 N. H., 455; Holmes v. Trumper, 22 Mich., 427; Greenfield Bk. v. Stowell, 123 Mass., 196; Knoxville Bk. v. Clark, 51 Iowa, 264; Weyerhauser v. Dunn, 100 N. Y., 150; Me. Nat. Bk. v. Nat. City Bk., 59 N. Y., 61; Harris v. Burger, 15 St. Rep. (N. Y.), 389.

As to alteration generally, see Woolfolk v. Bank, 10 Bush. (Ky.), 504; Draper v. Wood, 112 Mass., 315; Booth v. Powers, 50 N. Y., 22; Greenfield Bank v. Stowell, 123 Mass., 196; Hewins v. Cargill, 67 Me., 554; Aldrich v. Smith, 37 Mich., 468; Brown v. Straw, 6 Neb., 536; Taddiken v. Cantrell, 69 N. Y., 597; McGuinness v. Bligh, 11 R. I., 1; Page v. Danaker, 43 Wis., 221; Coburn v. Webb, 56 Md., 96; Lemay v. Williams, 32 Ark., 166; Robinson v. Reed, 46 Iowa, 219; Hamilton v. Hooper,

Thus, where a bill was drawn payable to A. B., and whilst in his possession the date was altered, and the bill was subsequently indorsed to the plaintiffs for value, it was held that they could not recover against the acceptor. "It seems admitted," says Ash-

Id., 515; Lamb v. Paine, Id., 550; Paramore v. Lindsey, 63 Mo., 63; Townsend v. Wagon Co., 10 Neb., 615.

1 An alteration by the payee or holder of a bill or note in any material respect avoids the instrument as to the maker and all parties except the person making the alteration, even in the hands of an innocent indorsee for value: Stephens v. Graham, 7 S. & R. (Penn.), 508; Cloud v. Stout, 5 Litt. (Ky.), 205; Pankey v. Mitchell, 1 Breeze (Ill.), 301; Mitchell v. Ringgold, 3 Har. & Johns., 159; Trigg v. Taylor, 27 Mo., 245; Hodge v. Gilman, 20 Ill., 437. Even though it could not be detected by the most careful scrutiny: Wade v. Withington, 1 Allen (Mass.), 561. Though by the alteration the day of payment is protracted, the note is nevertheless void: United States Bank v. Russell, 3 Yeates (Penn.), 391; Miller v. Gilleland, 19 Penn. St., 119; Owings v. Arnot, 33 Mo., 406; Lisle v. Rogers, 18 B. Mon. (Ky.), 524. If the note was dated wrong by mistake, yet an alteration without the maker's consent, express or implied, renders it void: Bowers v. Jewell, 2 N. H., 543. See Hooker v. Jamison, 2 W. & S. (Penn.), 433; Henderson v. Wilson, 6 How. (Miss.), 65. Writing in the margin "payable at the Bank of America," held to be a material alteration: Woodworth v. Bank of America, 19 John. (N. Y.), 391; Simpson r. Stackhouse, 9 Penn. St., 186; Hill v. Cooley, 46 Penn. St., 259; Sturgess v. Williams. 9 Ohio St., 443; Southwark Bank v. Gross, 35 Penn. St., 80. An accommodation bill was drawn for the purpose of being discounted at a bank, and at the foot of it was a memorandum signed by the last indorser, directing the proceeds of the bill to be credited to the drawer. On the trial of a suit on the bill by the last against a prior indorser, it appeared that this memorandum had been cut off. It was held that the memorandum was no part of the bill, and that its being taken off in no way affected the rights of the parties to the bill: Hubbard v. Williamson. 25 Ired. (Penn.), 397.

If blank spaces be left to be filled after execution, the consent of the party executing that they shall be afterwards filled is to be implied: Wiley v. Moon, 17 S. & R., (Penn.), 438; Smith v. Crooker, 5 Mass., 538; Jordan v. Neilson, 2 Wash. (U.S.), 164; Boardman v. Gore, 1 Stew. (Ala.), 517; Bank v. Curry, 2 Dana (Ky.), 142; Stahl v. Berger, 10 S. & R. (Penn.), 170; Commonwealth Bank v. McChord, 4 Dana (Ky.), 191; Douglas v. Scott, 8 Leigh (Va.), 43; Richmond Mfg. Co. v. Davis, 7 Blackf., 412; Ives v. Farmers' Bank, 2 Allen (Mass.), 236. In the case of the printed form of the note, filled up by the maker and then indorsed for his accommodation by another, and then altered by the maker to a larger sum, by taking advantage of some vacant space in the form, held that the indorser was only liable for the smaller sum: Worrall v. Gheen, 39 Penn. St., 388. An alteration which does not vary the meaning of an instrument does not avoid it, though made by the party claiming under it: Nicholls v. Johnson, 10 Conn., 192; Granite R. R. Co. v. Bacon, 15 Pick. (Mass.), 239; Morrill v. Otis, 12 N. H., 466; Pequawket Bridge v. Mathes, 6 N. H., 139; Mathis v. Mathis, 6 D. & B. (N. C.), 60; Harris v. Bradford, 4 Ala., 214; Gardner v. Sisk, 3 Penn., 326; Burnham v. Ayer, 35 N. H., 351; Moye v. Herndon, 30 Miss., 110; Humphreys v. Crane, 5 Cal., 173. A promissory note was made payable to a partnership under one name and indorsed by a surety, and was afterwards altered by the maker and payee, without the knowlege of the surety, so as to be payable to the same partnership by a different name; held, in an action by the hurst, J., "that if this had been a deed, the alteration would have vitiated it. Now, I cannot see any reason why the principle on

payce against the surety, that the alteration was immaterial and did not affect the validity of the note: Arnold v, Jones, 2 R. I., 345.

In Massachusetts it has been held that the addition of the name of a witness to a note, after its delivery, if made without the knowledge or consent of the maker, and by one who did not see him sign the note, avoids the note: Homer v. Wallis. 11 Mass., 309; but an exception is made, when the act is innocently done, when the note had been witnessed before: Smith v. Dunham, 8 Pick. (Mass.), 246. In Ford v. Ford, 17 Pick. (Mass.), 418, a bond, which required attestation, but which was not attested when delivered, was held not to be avoided because, the obligee procured a person who knew the signature of the obligor, but was not present when it was signed, was not thereby avoided.

In Maine Millbery r. Storer, 75 Me., 69, it was held that the putting of the name of a witness on the note without the maker's knowledge is not a material alteration, when the act was not fraudulent, and was honestly done.

See also Rollins v. Bartlett, 20 Me., 319; Thornton v. Appleton. 29 Me., 293.

But see Brackett v. Mountford, 11 Me., 15, where such an act was held to be such an unauthorized alteration as avoided the note.

To say the least, this is a dangerous doctrine, and one which should be very carefully applied. In some of the States, a witnessed note stands upon a different ground from one which is not witnessed, particularly so far as the running of the Statute of Limitations is concerned. The addition of a name of a party as maker after its delivery avoids the note as to the original maker: Nicholson v. Combs, 90 Ind., 515; Henry v. Coats, 17 Ind., 161; Dowers v. Briggs, 20 Ind., 139; Harper v. State, 7 Blackf. (Ind), 61; see Marshall v. Gougler, 10 S. & R. (Penn.), 164; Ravisies v. Alsten, 5 Ala., 297; Stewart v. Preston, 1 Branch (Fla.), 10; Blackwell v. Lane, 4 D. & B. (N. C.), 113; Adams v. Frye, 3 Met. (Mass.), 103; Hennings v. Werkheiser, 8 Penn. St., 518; Thornton v. Appleton, 29 Maine, 298; State v. Gherkin, 7 Ired. (N. C.), 206. Where the payee wrote his name under the names of the makers, and added after his own name the word "security," it was held to be a material alteration: Chappell v. Spencer, 23 Barb. (N. Y.), 584. Alteration by adding "with interest," though without fraudulent intent, vitiates the note: Fay v. Smith, 1 Allen (Mass), 477. If the maker, after it is indorsed, add "with interest," it avoids the note even though the alteration was made before delivery to the payee: Waterman v. Vose, 43 Me., 504. A note made by two, subsquently altered by one, is no longer binding on the other: Crochett v. Thomason, 5 Sneed. (Tenn.), 342. If the payee make a material alteration, he can neither recover on the note nor on the contract for which the note was given: White v. Hass, 32 Alabama, 430. The payee of a note given for the price of goods sold, having altered it without fraud, may recover on the common counts: Merrick v. Boury, 4 Ohio St., 60.

For cases in which an alteration has been held to be material, see McVean v. Scott, 46 Barb. (N. Y.), 379; Hall's Adm'x v. McHenry, 19 Iowa, 521; Grimes v. Piersol, 25 Ind., 246; Hill v. Cooley, 66 Penn. St., 259; Miller v. Reed, 3 Grant, 51; Mahaiwe Bank v. Douglass, 31 Conn., 170; Cole v. Hills, 44 N. H., 227; Chadwick v. Eastman, 53 Mc., 12; Wood v. Steele, 6 Wall. (U. S.), (S. C.), 80; Low v. Argrove, 30 Ga., 129; Elbert v. McClelland, 8 Bush. (Ky.), 577; Wallace v. Jewell, 21 Ohio St., 163; Holmes v. Trumper, 22 Mich., 427; Kennedy v. Crandell, 3 Lans. (N. Y.), 1; Flint v. Craig, 59 Barb. (N. Y.), 319; Wait v. Pomeroy, 20 Mich., 425; Lincoln v. Lincoln, 12 Gray, 45; Kountz v. Hart, 17 Ind., 329; Chism v. Toomer, 27 Ark., 108; Washington Bank v. Ecky, 51 Mo., 272; Major v. Hanson, 2 Biss. (Ky.), 195; Espy

which a deed would have been avoided should not extend to a case of a bill of exchange. There is no magic in parchment or wax, and the principle to be extracted from the cases is that any alteration avoids the contract. If A. B had brought this action, he could not have recovered, because he must suffer from any alteration of the bill whilst in his custody; the same objection must hold against the plaintiffs who derive title from him." So, where the drawer, without the consent of the acceptor, added to the acceptance the words "Payable at Mr. B.'s, Chiswell Street," it was held that this was a material alteration, discharging the acceptor. And the same point has been repeatedly decided since the 1 & 2, Geo. 4, c. 78. "Suppose," says Abbott, C. J., "a bill so altered to be indorsed to a person ignorant of the alteration; his right to sue his indorser would, as the bill appears, be complete upon default made where the bill is payable; whereas, in truth, the acceptor, not having in reality undertaken to pay there, would have committed no default by such non-payment. I am of opinion, therefore, that the alteration is in a material part of the bill, and the acceptor is, in consequence, discharged."

v. Bank, 18 Wall. (U. S.), 605; Bradley v. Mann, 37 Mich., 1; Cochran v. Nebeker, 48 Ind., 459; Bank v. Dunn, 62 Mo., 79; Bank v. Gay, 63 Mo., 33; Swift v. Barber, 28 Mich., 503; Morehead v. Bank, 5 W. Va., 74; Benedict v. Cowden, 49 N. Y., 396.

Taking the name of additional joint maker of a note, without consent of the previous signers, discharges them; the new maker is bound for the whole note: Hamilton v. Hooper, 46 Iowa, 515.

For cases of immaterial alteration, see McCramer v. Thompson, 21 Iowa, 244; Terry v. Hazlewood, 1 Dav. (Ky.), 104; Levi v. Mendall, Id., 77; Holland v. Hatch, 15 Ohio St., 464; Corcoran v. Doll, 32 Cal., 82; Jones v. Berryhill, 25 Iowa, 289; Todd v. Bank of Kentucky, 3 Bush. (Ky.), 626; Smith v. Lockridge, 8 Bush. (Ky.), 423; Derby v. Thrall, 44 Vt., 413; Bridges v. Winter, 42 Miss., 135; Houghton v. Francis, 29 Ill., 244; McCaughey v. Smith, 27 N. Y., 39; McRaven v. Crisler, 53 Miss., 542; Hirst v. Wagner, 43 Iowa, 373; Goodenow v. Curtis, 33 Mich., 505; Herrick v. Baldwin, 17 Minn., 209; Hunt v. Gray, 35 N. J. L., 227; Brugham v. Reddy, 5 Ben. (U. S. D. C.), 266.

- Mastor v. Miller, 4 T. R., 320; in error, 2 H. Bl., 110; Hirschman v. Budd, L. R., 8 Ex., 171; Vance v. Lowther, L. R., 1 Ex. Div., 126. The defence was capable of being raised by a plea traversing the acceptance; but see now Ord. XIX., v. 23.
- Cowie v. Halsall, 4 B. & Al., 197 (6 E. C. L. R.); 3 Stark., 36 (36 E. C. L. R), s. c.
  M'Intosh v. Haydon, R. & M., 362; Desbrowe v. Weatherby, 1 M. & Rob., 438;
  C. & P., 758 (25 E. C. L. R.), s. c.; Taylor v. Moseley, 1 M. & Rob., 439, n.; Semple v. Cole, 8 L. J., Exch., 155. These decisions have been recently under review and confirmed by the Court of Queen's Bench in Burchfield v. Moore, 23 L. J., Q. B, 261, 3 E. & B., 683 (77 E. C. L. R.), s. c.; Gardner v. Walsh, 5 E. & B., 83 (85 E. C. L. R.).

But it has been held by the same learned judge, and [\*325] the Court of Exchequer, that a similar addition with the consent of the acceptor would not invalidate the instrument, either at common law or under the Stamp Act. Where a bill was addressed to A. B. & Co., and the acceptance was by A. and B., and the address was afterwards altered to correspond with the acceptance, as the acceptors would be liable either way, the alteration was held to be immaterial. An alteration of a foreign bill, by adding either on the face of the bill or to the indorsements the rate of exchange, according to which the bill is to be paid, is fatal.

The addition of the words "interest to be paid at six per cent. per annum," written at the corner of the note and not in the body, is a material alteration avoiding the note.

But secondly, even if the consent of all parties have been obtained to an alteration in a material part, such alteration, nevertheless, avoids the bill under the stamp laws; for it is become a new and different instrument, and therefore requires a new stamp; which stamp cannot, as we have seen, then be affixed. Any alteration in the date, sum or time of payment, the insertion of words rendering negotiable an instrument which before was not so, altering the words "value received" into an expression of the particular consideration which passed, are respectively material alterations, avoiding the bill under the Stamp Acts. But the addition of another name to a joint and several note on a different part of the face of the note,

<sup>1</sup> Stevens v. Lloyd, M. & M., 292; and see Jacobs v. Hart, 6 M. & S., 142; Walter v. Cubley, 2 C. & M., 151; but in Walter v. Cubley the attention of the court was not drawn to Gibb v. Mather, 8 Bing., 221 (21 E. C. L. R.); 1 Moore & S., 387; 2 C. & J., 254, s. c. Would not the alteration have been material in an action against the drawer? Stevens v. Lloyd, M. & M., 292; and if so, was not the legal effect of the instrument altered?

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup> Farquhar v. Southey, M. & M., 17; 2 C. & P., 497 (12 E. C. L. R.), s. c.; Hamelin v. Bruck, 15 L. J., Q. B., 343; 9 Q. B., 306 (43 E. C. L. R.), s. c.

Hirshfield v. Smith, 35 L. J., C. P., 177; L. R., 1 C. P., 340, s. c., though the additions were in red ink.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>4</sup> Warrington v. Early, 23 L. J., Q. B., 47.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>5</sup> Wilson v. Justice, Bayley, 6th ed., 118; Bowman v. Nichol, 5 T. R., 537; 1 Esp., 81, s. c.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>6</sup> Hamelin v. Bruck, 15 L. J., Q. B., 343; 9 Q. B., 306 (38 E. C. L. R.), s. c.

Bathe v. Taylor, 15 East, 412: Walton v. Hastings, 4 Camp., 223; 1 Stark., 214 2 E. C. L. R.), s. c.; Guthwaite v. Luntley, 4 Camp., 179; Knill v. Williams, 10 East, 431. The words "not negotiable" may be added at any time to a crossed check: see p. 28.

with the assent of all parties, has been held, ut res magis valeat, to operate as an indorsement.1

There are, however, two cases in which an alteration, though in a material part, will not vacate the instrument; first, where such an [\*326] alteration is made before the bill is \*issued or become an available instrument; and secondly, where the bill is altered to correct a mistake or supply an omission, and in furtherance of the original intention of the parties.

Thus where the drawer of a bill payable to his own order sent it to the drawee for acceptance, and the drawee requested that a longer time might be allowed for payment, and an alteration to that effect was accordingly made with the consent of the drawer, and the bill was afterwards accepted, it was held that the alteration being made

Retracing the name of obliger which has faded or been blotted with ink and ob. scured does not avoid the obligation: Dunn r. Clements, 7 Jones (N. C.) L., 58. To write over with ink words written in pencil is no material alteration: Reed v. Roark, 14 Tex., 329. When a third person who had written the note, and with whom it was left, in good faith changed the date, but on its being disapproved by the maker restored the original date, it was held that he was liable on the note; Collins v. Makepeace, 13 Ind., 448. Noting the residences of indorsers after their names does not affect its identity, nor avoid it as to any of the parties to it: Struthers v. Keudall, 61 Penn. St., 214. The holder of a bill indorsed "A. B., Cashier," may add the name of the bank: Bank of Genesce v. Patchin Bank, 13 N. Y., 309. The introduction of a dollar mark, followed by numerals, which may be omitted without affecting its sense, does not impair the validity of a note: Houghton v. Francis, 29 Ill., 244. The alteration of a note in a material respect by one of several makers, assum ing to have authority so to do, and for the honest purpose of making it conform to original intention of the parties, without the express though with the implied assent of the holder, will not prevent a recovery by the latter against all the makers declaring upon the note, as though in the form originally delivered: Murray r. Graham, 29 Iowa, 520. In the absence of evidence of fraudulent intent, a note is not void which has been altered after indorsement without the knowledge of the indorser, if again restored to its original condition: Kountz v. Kennedy, 69 Penu. St., 187.

An error in dating a note may be corrected by the holder, so as to make the note mature at the time in fact intended by the parties: Jessup v. Dennison, 2 Dis. (Ohio), 150; Dreker v. Franz, 7 Bush. (Ky.), 273. Both parties intended to make a note payable to B. C., but accidentally it was written B. R. C.; held that the erasure of the R. by the payee after delivery was immaterial: Cole v. Hills, 44 N. H., 227; Ames v. Colburn, 11 Gray (Mass.), 390; Shepherd v. Whetstone, 51 Iowa, 457; Warpol v. Ellison, 4 Houst. (Del.) 322.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> Ex parte Yates, 27 L. J., Bank., 9; 2 DeG. & J., 191, s. c. But see Gardner v. Walsh, 5 E. & B., 83 (85 E. C. L. R.).

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup> Catton r. Simpson, 8 Ad. & E., 136 (35 E. C. L, R.); overruled by Gardner r. Walsh, 5 E. & B., 83 (85 E. C. L. R.); but see Ex parte Yates, supra, and Dodge r. Pringle, 29 L. J., Exch., 115; Aldous v. Cornwall, L. B., 3 Q. B., 573; 37 L. T., 201; 9 B. & S., 607.

before the bill was an available instrument against any party, a new stamp was unnecessary.1 Upon the same principle, where three persons joined as drawer, acceptor and indorser, in the fabrication of an accommodation bill, and the date was altered before it came into the bands of a holder for value, it was held that as the accommodation parties could not sue upon it inter se, it was not, till it came into the hands of a holder for value, an available instrument. and therefore that an alteration before that time did not vitiate it. "The question," says Abbott, C. J., "is whether this alteration made it a new bill? Now, undoubtedly, when an accommodation bill has the different parties written upon it, it is, in some sense of the word, a bill of exchange; but it is utterly unavailable as a security for money until it is issued to some real holder for a valuable consideration. It first became a bill of exchange when it was issued to the indorsee for a valuable consideration." "Here," adds Best, J., "at the time when the alteration was made, the bill was a perfect bill in form, but it did not constitute a valid contract between the parties. A bond is a perfect instrument before delivery; but still an alteration made before delivery will not vitiate it." But if either payee or indorsee have given value for it, so that the drawer is liable, an alteration, though before acceptance, vacates the bill. "In such a case," says Lord Ellenborough, "it does not remain in fieri till acceptance. As to the drawer, it was before then a \*perfect instrument.\* When [\*327] the date was altered, a new bill was drawn, and that could not be done without a new stamp." So if a promissory note be signed by A., and subsequently by B. as surety for A., whilst the note is in the hands of the payee, it will be void, unless the signature of B. is in pursuance of a previous agreement at the time of making the note.<sup>5</sup> And an altered bill will be void in the hands of an innocent indorsee, as well as in the hands of parties cognizant of the alteration.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> Kennerley v. Nash, 1 Stark., 452 (2 E. C. L. R.).

Downs v. Richardson, 5 B. & Ald., 674 (7 E. C. L. R.); 1 D. & R., 332, s. c.; Tarleton v. Shingler, 7 C. B., 812 (62 E. C. L. R.). As to the alteration of a deed after execution by one party, see Jones v. Jones, 1 C. & M., 721; before complete delivery, Spicer v. Burgess, 1 C., M. & R., 129; 4 Tyr. 598, s. c.

Walton v. Hastings, 4 Camp., 223; 1 Stark., 215 (2 E. C. L. R.), s. c.

<sup>4</sup> Outhwaite c. Luntley, 4 Camp., 179.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>5</sup> Clerk v. Blackstock, Holt. N. P. C., 474. See Ex parte White, 2 Deac. & Chit., 334.

Outhwaite v. Luntley, 4 Camp., 179.