The subject of set-off at law must be a legal one, and not a mere equitable debt; and, therefore, the assignce of a bond could not set off the amount secured by that instrument, but the indorsee or assignee of a bill or note might set it off, because negotiable instruments are assignable at law.

\*It must be a subsisting legal debt; therefore a debt barred by the Statute of Limitations cannot be set off. So a debt, satisfied in contemplation of law by a discharge of the

An unliquidated demand cannot be pleaded in set-off: Detastett v. Crousillat, 2 Wash. (U. S. C. C.), 132; State v. Welstead, 6 Halstead, 397; Hepburn v. Hoag, 6 Conn., 613; McCord v. Williams, 2 Ala., 71; Woodruff v. Laflin, 4 Pike (Ark.), 527; Homas v. McConnell, 3 McLean (U. S. C. C.), 81; Whitaker v. Robinson, 8 Smedes & Marshall, 319; Hawks r. Lands, 8 Ill., 227; Smith v. Smith, 1 Smith, 337; Crenshaw v. Jackson, 6 Ga., 509. Damages resulting from the breach of a contract are unliquidated where there is no criterion provided by the parties or by the law operating on the contract by which to ascertain the amount of the damages: McCord v. Wil. liams, 2 Ala., 71. It is a general rule that where indebitatus assumpsit will lie upon a simple contract, the debt due thereon may be pleaded in set-off: Austin r. Feland, 8 Mo., 309. A debtor draws and delivers to his creditor an order on a third person payable at sight, and directs the amount, when received, to be placed to the credit of his account. The creditor, without the knowledge or assent of the drawer, takes the drawee's acceptance payable at sixty days, and before the expiration thereof the acceptor dies insolvent. Held that the drawer's claim against his creditor on account of the draft was a claim for unliquidated and uncertain damages for the failure to collect it, and could not be allowed as a set-off in a suit brought by the creditor to recover the original demand against the drawer: Harrison v. Wortham, 8 Leigh. (Va.), 296. But unliquidated damages may be set off, under the plea of payment, in an action arising from the same transaction. It is admitted in such cases rather as an equitable defence than in strictness a set-off: Hubler v. Tamney, 5 Watts (Penn.), 51; Gogel v. Jacoby, 5 S. & R. (Penn.), 117; Henion v. Morton, 2 Ashm. (Penn.), 150; Abercrombie v. Owings, 2 Rich. (S. C.), 127; Turn. pike Co. v. Harris, 8 Humphrey, 558; Elliott c. Heath, 14 N H., 131. In Pennsylvania, however, an unliquidated cross demand, arising from a distinct and independent contract, may be set off: Ellmaker v. Franklin Fire Ins. Co., 6 W. & S. (Penn.), 439; Phillips v. Lawrence, Id., 150. So also in Ill.: Edw rds v. Todd, 1 Ill., 462; Kaskaskia Bridge Co. v. Shannon, 6 Ill., 15. Wheeler v. Raymond, 5 Cow. (N. Y.), 231; 9 Id., 295; Gilchrist v. Leonard, 2 barley (S. C.), 135; Bell v. Horton, 1 Ala., 413; Carew v. Northrup, 5 Id., 367; Smith v. Taylor, 9 Id., 633; Bowen v. Snell, 11 Id., 379. In those states, however, in which there is no separate administration of equity, but the principles of equity are adoped and enforced through common law forms, as in Pennsylvania, a different rule of necessity prevails: Murray v. Williamson, 3 Binn., (Penn.), 135; Morgan v. Bank of N. A., 8 S. & R. (Penn.), 88; Beesley v. Crawford, 19 Ohio, 126.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> Wake v. Tinkler, 16 East. 36. But an equitable debt might be set off by an equitable plea: see ante, p. 366, n., p. 2, n. and p. 70, n.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup> Bull. N. P., 180. Gilchrist v. Williams, 3 Marsh. (Ky.), 235; Williams v. Gilchrist, 3 Bibb. (Ky.), 49; Turnbull v. Strohecker, 4 McCord (S. C.), 210; Crist v. Garner, 2 Peun St., 251; Madden v. Madden, 2 Rep. Const. Ct. (S. C.), 350; Jacks v. Moore, 1 Yeates (Penn.), 391.

debtor out of execution, cannot be set off.¹ But the defendant may set off a debt due to him, through he have obtained a verdict against the plaintiff in a former action² or a judgment, even though he have taken him in execution, if the debtor has not been discharged.³ But the debt to be set off need not necessarily be one for which an action could be brought. Therefore an unsigned attorney's bill may be set off.⁴ And the debt must exist not only at the commencement of the action but at the time of plea pleaded, and the plea must aver that the plaintiff still is indebted to the defendant. ⁵

The demand must have been a debt strictly so called; that is, a debt actually due and payable at the commencement of the action. Therefore a bill or note cannot be set off unless due and in the defendant's hands before the issuing of the writ.

And it must be a debt still due at the time of trial. Therefore it may be replied that since the plea the plaintiff has paid the debt.8

- 1 Jacques r. Withy, 1 T. R., 557.
- \* Baskerville v. Brown, 2 Burr., 1229.
- 3 Peacock v. Jeffrey, 1 Taunt., 426.
- 4 Harrison v. Turner, 16 L. J., Q. B., 295; 10 Q. B., 482 (59 E. C. L. R.), s. c.
- <sup>5</sup> Dendy v. Powell, 3 M. & W., 442.
- 6 Richards v. James, 2 Exch., 471.
- <sup>7</sup> Evans v. Prosser, 3 T. R., 186; and see Braithwaite v. Coleman, 4 Nev. & Man. 654.
- <sup>5</sup> Eyton v. Littledale, 18 L. J., Exch., 369; 4 Exch., 159, s. c.; Briscoe v. Hill, 10 M. & W., 735. The debt must be existing between the parties at the commencement of plaintiff's suit; Jefferson Co. Bk v. Chapman, 19 John. (N. Y.), 322; Carpenter c. Butte-field, 3 Johns. Cas. (N. Y.), 145; Huling v. Hugg, 1 Watts & Serg., 418; Cox v. Cov per, 3 Ala., 256; Carfrew v. Canavan, 4 How. (Miss.), 370; Kelly v. Garrett 6 Ill., 649: Johnson v. Comstock, 6 Hill (N. Y.), 10; Whitaker v. Turnbull, 3 Harrison (N. J.), 172; Varney v. Brewster, 14 N. H., 49; Edwards v. Temple, 2 Harr. (Del.), 322. A permission to the defendants to use a bill as a set-off, and to be liable to the owner only in the event of his being able to set it off, is not such a property in the bill as makes it the subject of set-off: Adams v. McGrew, 2 Ala., 675; McDonald v. Harrison, 12 Mo., 447. Where a note, not negotiable, was assigned for a valuable consideration, and an action was brought for the benefit of the assignee in the name of the payee, it was held that the maker might set off a debt due to him at the time of the assignment: Sanborn v. Little, 3 N. H., 539. The defendant sued by the assignee of a note cannot set off a claim against the assignor, unless he shows that he held it at the time of the notice of the assignment: Ritchie v. Moore, 5 Munf. (Va.), 388; Stewart v. Anderson, 6 Cranch (U. S.), 203. In case of mutual demands existing at the death of a decedent, they may be set off in an action by the executor or administrator: Bordman r. Smith, 4 Pick. (Mass.), 212; Light v. Lieninger, 8 Penn St., 403. In an action by an administrator for a debt due to his intestate, the defendant cannot set off a debt due from the intestate, purchased by the defendant after the death of the intestate: Root v. Taylor, 20 John. (N. Y.), 137.

The debts must be mutual; for the statutes only authorize the setting off of mutual debts.

Therefore, in the case of partnership debts, if the firm sue, only a debt due from all the partners can be set off. So, if the firm be sued, they cannot set off a debt due to one or more of the partners. but not to all. But one partner may settle a debt due to the firm by setting off against it a debt due from himself,2 and though, as it seems, he should in so doing be acting in fraud of his co-partners. [\*369] \*The debts and credits of a firm survive at law to the surviving partner, and a court of law would not take notice of his equitable claims and liabilities. His separate debts and credits and his debts and credits as representative of the firm are considered as of the same nature, and may, therefore, be set off against one another. Thus, when a surviving partner sues for a partnership debt, a separate debt due from him may be set off. So, when he sues for his separate debt, a debt due from the former partnership may be set off. When he is sued for a partnership debt, he may set off a debt due to him individually; and when he is sued for a separate debt, may set off a debt due to the firm. And if one of two joint contractors is sued alone, he may plead in bar that the promises were made by him and another jointly, and that a set-off is due from the plaintiff to him and his co-contractors.4

A debt due from an intestate in his lifetime cannot be set off against one which has accrued to the administrator since the death of the intestate: Wolfersberger v. Bucher, 10 S. & R. (Penn.), 10; Colby v. Colby, 2 N. H., 419; Fry v. Evans, 8 Wend. (N. Y.), 530; Mills v. Lumpkin, 1 Kelly (Ga.), 511. In suits by or against executors or administrators, when the estate is insolvent, a debt not due at the time of the death of the testator or intestate, although it became due before the commencement of the suit, cannot be set off. It is otherwise if the estate be solvent; in that case it makes no difference that the debt proposed to be set off was not due at the time of the death of the testator or intestate if it were due when the suit was commenced: Bosler v. Exchange Bank, 4 Penn St., 32; see Rawson v. Conplad, 3 Barb. (N. Y.), Ch., 166: Ray v. Dennis, 5 Ga., 357. There cannot be a set-off against a set-off: Ulrich v. Berger, 4 W. & S. (Penn.), 19; Hudnall v. Scott, 2 Ala., 569; Gable v. Parry, 13 Penn St., 181.

When an assigned note is pleaded as a set-off to a suit on a note by an assignee, it must be averred that the note offered as a set-off was assigned to the defendant before notice of the assignment of the note sued on to the plaintiff: Sayres v. Linkhart, 25 Ind., 145.

But the Roman law was otherwise; one partner might claim a set-off due to his partner "ex causa societatis:" Dig. 45, 2, 10; Cujacius in Cod., 4, 31, 9.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup> Wallace r. Kelsall, 7 M. & W., 264.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>3</sup> Slipper r. Stidstone, 1 Esp., 47; 5 T. R., 493, s. c.

<sup>\*</sup> Stackwood r. Dunn, 3 Q. B., 822 (43 E. C. L. R.). A joint debt cannot be set 532

The indorsee of an overdue note is not liable to the set-off of a debt due from his indorser to the maker.1

To examine minutely what are mutual debts when the characters of principal and agent, of executors and administrators,<sup>2</sup> and of husband and wife intervene, would be to deviate from our main subject.<sup>2</sup>

off against a separate debt nor a separate debt against a joint debt: McDowell r. Tyson, 14 S. & R. (Penn.), 300; Porter r. Nekervis, 4 Rand. (Va.), 359; Howe r. Sheppard, 2 Sumn. (U. S. C. C.), 409; Wood v. Carlisle, 6 N. Hamp., 27: Henderson v. Lewis, 9 S. & R. (Penn.), 279; State Bank r. Armstrong, 4 Dev. (N. C.), 579; Vose r. Philbrook, 3 Story (U. S. C. C.), 335; Bullard r. Dorsey, 7 S. & M. (Miss.), 9; Albright r. Aldrich, 2 Tex., 166; Burgwin r. Babcock, 11 Ill., 28; Sperb r. McCaun, 110 N. Y., 605; Ingals r. Plympton, 10 Col., 535; Sefton r. Hargett, 113 Ind., 592; Coleman r. Elmore, 31 Fed. Rep., 391; Wood r. Brush, 72 Cal., 221; and in equity the same rule prevails, except under peculiar circumstances: Glover v. Hambree, 82 Als., 324; Roberts r. Donovau, 70 Cal., 108; Rush r. Thompson, 113 Ind., 158; Kirby r. Spiller, 83 Ala., 481; but in Iowa, under the code, a cause of action amounting to a contract may be pleaded as a set-off by one of two or more joint defendants: Sherman r. Hale, 76, Iowa, 383. One of several defendants who are sued upon a joint note may set off a demand due to himself from the plaintiff against the demand due upon the joint note: Powell r. Hogue, 8 B. Mon. (Ky.), 443. Where a note was made payable to one of a firm for partnership property, and passed to a creditor of the firm, to whose use a suit was brought in which set-off was pleaded of individual notes of the payee, held competent to show in answer that the note was by fraud or mistake made payable to one of the firm: Bourne v. Wooldridge, 10 B. Mon. (Ky.), 492. Damages sustained by a trespass in carrying away property cannot be set off against a note: Nelms v. Hill, 85 Ala., 583. But in an action on a note the maker may recover upon a counter claim for fraud in the sale of the property for which the note was given: Downgiac Mfg. Co. r. Gibson, 73 Iowa, 525. Where two persons are made parties defendant, the plaintiff cannot deny a counter claim growing out of the same transaction, upon the ground that it did not accrue to both, especially when he had always treated it as a transaction with both: Drew v. Edmonds, 60 Vt., 401. One of two defendants may set off a debt due to him by the plaintiff, unless there is some superior equity in a third person: Stewart r. Coulter, 12 S. & R. (Penn.), 252; Childerson r. Hammond, 9 S. & R. (Penn.), 68. One of several partners sued for a separate debt may set off a debt due by the plaintiff to the firm, provided that it appears that the set-off is made with the express assent of the other partners and the plaintiff is insolvent: Wrenshall v. Cook, 7 Watts, 464. See Craig r. Henderson, 2 Fenn. St., 261.

Burrough r. Moss, 10 B. & C., 558 (21 E. C. L. R.); and see p. 170. In what cases set-off is allowed against the indorsee of claims against the maker of a note indorsed after maturity: Collins v. Allen, 12 Wend. (N. Y.), 356; Sargent v. Southgate, 5 Pick. (Mass.), 312; Driggs v. Rockwell, 11 Wend. (N. Y.), 504; Huge v. Large, 2 Penn. St., 103; Unseld v. Stephenson, 33 Mo., 161; Anderson v. Busteed, 5 Duer (N Y.), 485; Bond v. Fitzpatrick, 4 Gray (Mass.), 89; Williams v. Banks, 11 Md., 193 Kilonan v. White, 6 Fla., 45: Shipman v. Robins, 10 Iowa, 208; Odiorne v. Woodman, 39 N. H., 541; Phipps v. Shegogg, 30 Miss., 241.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup> See Blackesley r. Smallwood, & Q. B., 538 (55 E. C. L. R.); Rees r. Watts, 11 Exch., 410; Mardall r. Thellusson, 6 E. & B., 976 (88 E. C. L. R.).

Hurlbut v. Ins. Co., 2 Sumner (U.S.), 471; McKinney v. Bellows, 3 Blackf. (Ind.),

If a note of given to a married woman, the husband may, as we have seen, either sue alone or join his wife. If he sue in his own name, he is not liable to a set-off due from his wife dum sola, but he is to a set-off due from himself. If he join her, it would seem he is liable to a set-off due from his wife, but he is not to one due from himself.

The general statutes of set-off are permissive, not imperative. Therefore, if a defendant have a cross-demand, he may either set it off or bring a cross-action for it at his option.

31: Scott r. Rivers, 1 S. & P. (Ala.), 19; Durrock v. Hay, 2 Yeates, 208; Merrison v. Furnham, 1 Marsh. (Ky.), 41; Waln v. Wilkins, 4 Yeates, 461; Gordon v. Bowne, 2 John. (N. Y.), 150; Warner v. Barker, 3 Wend. (N. Y.), 400; Pitkin r. Pitkin, 8 Conn., 325; Bullard v. Dorsey, 7 S. & M. (Miss.), 9; Minifee v. Bali, 2 Eng. (Ark., 520; Hilliard r. Walker, 11 Ill., 644. A claim against the plaintiff in a representative capacity cannot be set off in a suit brought in an individual capacity: Grew t. Burditt, 9 Pick. (Mass.), 265; Snow v. Conant, 8 Vt., 308; Cummings v. Williams, 5 J. J. Marshall, 384; Wright v. Rogers, 3 McLean (U. S. C. C.), 229. Claims against an agent, known to be such when the contract upon which suit is brought was entered into, cannot be set off against a debt due the principal: Wilson v. Codman. 3 Cranch (U. S.), 193; Gordon r. Church, 2 Caines (N. Y.), 399; Broune v. Robinson, 2 Caines, Cas. (N. Y., 341; Foster v. Hoyt, 2 Johns. Cas. (N. Y.), 327; Carman v. Garrison, 13 Penn. St., 158. A claim of a surviving partner is liable to a set-off of his individual debt, unless there be some equitable interest in another, which a court of law can protect: Lewis r. Culbertson, 11 Serg. &. Rawle, 47; Meader r. Scott, 4 Vt., 26; Cowder v. Elliott, 2 Mo., 60; Holbrook v. Lackey, 13 Mct. (Mass.). 132. A claim against a partner cannot be set off against an indebtedness to the firm: Cannon v. Lindsay, 85 Ala., 198; nor can one partner set off a claim in his favor, in an action against the firm, and this is so, although the action is for services rendered the firm, and the set off is for the board by the employee during the time he is rendering the service: Jenkins r. Barrows, 73 Ia., 433. In an action upon a promissory note against principal and surety, a demand due from the plaintiff to the principal may be set off: Mahurin v. Pearson, 8 N. H., 539; Harrison v. Henderson, 4 Ga., 198; Contra: Woodruff v. State, 2 Eng. (Ark.), 333. So in an action against the surety alone, such set off may be made with the assent of the principal: Lynch v. Bragg, 13 Alabama, 773. But a debt due from the plaintiff to the surety cannot be so set off: Corbett v. Hughes, 75 Iowa, 281.

<sup>1</sup> Burrough v. Moss, 10 B. & C., 558 (21 E. C. L. R.).

<sup>1</sup> Ibid.; see ante, Married Women, pp. 64-69: and Ord. XVII., r. 4. Where asuit has been brought by husband and wife for the rent of premises beioning to the wife, the tenant may set off a demand against the husband alone: Ferguson t. Lothrop, 15 Wend. (N. Y.), 625; Wisnart v. Downey, 15 S. & R. (Penn.), 77. See also, Abshire v. Corey, 113 Ind., 134. In an action by husband and wife for a legacy left to the wife "for her own use," a debt due from the husband to the testator cannot be set off: Jamison v. Brady, 6 S. & R. (Penn.), 466. The debt of the husband cannot be set off after divorce, though the wife's claim accrued during coverture: Fink v. Hake, 6 Watts (Penn.), 131.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>3</sup> Baskerville v. Brown, 2 Burr., 1229.

The law does not apply mutual debts in extinguishment of each other: Carmalt 534