on account of several distinct insulated debts, which cannot be considered in the light of a running account between the parties, the common law then differs from the civil law, and gives the creditor a right of appropriating it at any time before action as he pleases provided a prior appropriation have not been communicated to the debtor.

An appropriation which would have the effect of paying one man's debt with another man's money will not be allowed. Nor can there be an appropriation which would deprive a debtor of a benefit, such as the taxation of costs. And it seems that an appropriation by the creditor without the knowledge or consent of the debtor will not of itself afford sufficient ground for raising against the debtor a new promise to pay.

A payment may be imputed to a demand for which the creditor could not recover at law. But where a payment is made by a debtor on account generally, the court will not refer it to a debt barred by the statute if it can be attributed \*to any debt not so barred. The law will ascribe a payment to a legal debt rather than to an illegal one. A party receiving money for the use of another from a third person, which is not properly a payment but a set-off, cannot appropriate the money without the

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> Simpson v. Ingham, 2 B. & C., 65 (9 E. C. L. R.); 3 D. & Ry., 249; Mills v. Fowkes, 5 Bing. N. C., 455 (35 E. C. L. R.); 7 Scott, 444, s. c.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> Clayton's case, 1 Meriv., 604; Bodenham v. Purchas, 2 B. & Ald., 39; Stoveld v. Eade, 4 Bing., 12 (13 E. C. L. R.); 12 Moo., 370; Field v. Carr, 2 Moo. & P., 46; 5 Bing., 13 (15 E. C. L. R.); Goddard v. Cox, 2 Stra., 1194; Bosanquet v. Wray, 6 Taunt., 597 (1 E. C. L. R.); 2 Marsh., 319, s. c.; Kirby v. Duke of Marlborough, 2 M. & Sel., 18; Plomer v. Long, 1 Stark., 153 (2 E. C. L. R.); Woodruffe v. Hayne, 1 C. & P., 600 (12 E. C. L. R.); Shaw v. Picton, 4 B. & C., 715 (10 E. C. L. R.); 7 Dowl. & R., 201, s. c.; Marsh v. Houlditch, Chitty, 9th ed., 404; Hammersley v. Knowlys, 2 Esp., 666; Birch v. Tebbutt, 2 Stark., 74 (3 E. C. L. R.); Marryatts v. White, 2 Stark., 101; Meggott v. Mills, 1 Ld. Raym., 286; Dawe v. Holdsworth, Peake, 64; Peters v. Anderson. 5 Taunt., 596 (1 E. C. L. R.); Wright v. Laing, 3 B. & C., 165; (10 E. C. L. R.); 4 Dowl. & R., 783; Gough v. Davis. 4 Price, 200; Strange v. Lee, 3 East, 484; Simpson v. Ingham, 2 B. & C., 65 (9 E. C. L. R.); 3 Dowl. & R., 249; Mills v. Fowkes, 5 Bing., N. C., 455 (35 E. C. L. R.); 7 Scott, 444, s. c.

<sup>\*</sup> Thompson v. Brown, 1 M. & M., 40.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>4</sup> James v. Child, 2 Tyrwh., 735; 2 C. & J., 252, s. c.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>5</sup> Nash v. Hodgson, 6 De G., M. & G., 474; 25 L. J., Chan., 186; 23 L. J., Chan., 780, s. c.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>6</sup> Crookshanks v. Rose, 1 M. & R., 100; 5 C. & P., 19 (24 E. C. L. R.), s. c.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>7</sup> Nash v. Hodgson, 6 De G., M. & G. 474; 25 L. J., Chan., 186 · 23 L. J., Chan., 780, s. c.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>8</sup> Wright 1. Laing, 3 B. & C., 165 (10 E. C. L. R.); 4 Dowl. & R. 783.

231 PAYMENT.

knowledge or consent of him for whom it has been received. It has been held that a payment may be appropriated to a disputed debt if it be really a good debt.<sup>2</sup>

1 Waller v. Lacy, 1 M. & Gr., 54; 1 Scott. N. R., 186, s. c.

8 Williams v. Griffith, 5 M. & W., 300. The debtor has the first right to direct the application of any payment he may make: Taylor v. Sandiford, 7 Wheat. (U. S.), 13; Read v. Boardman, 20 Pick. (Mass.), 441; Martin v. Draher, 5 Watts. (Penn., 544; McDonald r. Pickett, 2 Bailey. (S. C.), 617; Mitchell r. Dull, 4 Gill & Johns. 361; Selfridge v. Northampton Bank, 8 W. & S. (Penn.), 320; Runyan v. Latham, 5 Ired. (N. C.), 551: Howland v. Rench, 7 Blackf. (Md.), 236; Rackley v. Pearce, 1 Kelly (Ga.), 241; Randall v. Parramore, 1 Branch (Fla.), 409; U. States v. Brad. bury, Davies (U. S. C. C.), 146; Thayer v. Denton, 4 Mich. 192; Sherwood v. Haight, 26 Conn., 432; Semmes v. Boykin, 27 Ga., 47; Proctor v. Marshall, 18 Tex., 63; Hargraves v. Cooke, 15 Ga., 321; Gaston v. Barney, 11 Ohio St., 500; Irwin v. Paulett, 1 Kan., 418. If payment is offered on an account not due, the creditor need not receive it, but if he does receive it he is bound to apply in accordance with the directions of the debtor; Wetherill v. Joy, 40 Me., 325. The rule that a debtor may apply payment as he pleases applies only to voluntary payments, and not to those made by process of law: Blackstone Bank v. Hill, 10 Pick. (Mass.); 129. If no appropriation be made by him, it then devolves upon the creditor to make it: Mitchell v. Dull, 2 H. & G. (Md.), 159; Alexander v. Patten, 4 Cranch (U.S.), 316; Brady v. Hill, 1 Mo., 315; Blinn v. Chester, 5 Day (Conn.), 166; Brewer v. Knapp, 1 Pick. (Mass.), 332; Blackstone Bank v. Hill, 10 Id., 129; Arnold v. Johnson, 1 Ill., 196; Logan v. Mason, 6 W. & S. (Penn.), 9; Washington Bank v. Prescott, 20 Pick. (Mass.), 339; Allen v. Kimball, 23 Id., 473; Jones v. U. States, 7 Howard U. S., 631; Van Rensselaer v. Roberts, 5 Den. (N. Y.), 470; Sawyer v. Tappan, 14 N. H., 352; Watt v. Hock, 25 Penn St., 411; Middleton v. Frame, 21 Mo. 412; Carpenter v. Goin, 19 N. H., 479; Crisler v. McCoy, 33 Miss., 445; Calvert v. Carter, 18 Md., 73; Solomou v. Dreschler, 4 Minn., 275; Proctor v. Marshall, 13 Tex., 63; Taylor v. Coleman. 20 Id., 772; Bird v. Davis, 13 N. J. Eq., 467; Babe's Heirs v. Stickney, 38 Ala.. 482. Yet the creditor must make, it has been held, such an application as the debtor could not reasonably or justly object to; Ayer v. Hawkins, 19 Vt., 26; Cowperthwait v. Sheffield, 1 Sandf. (N. Y.), 416; Parchman v. McKinney, 12 S. & M., (Miss.), 631; Bancroft v. Dumas, 21 Vt., 456; Caldwell v. Wentworth, 14 N. H., 431. If a creditor holds two demands, one lawful and the other unlawful, he cannot apply a general payment to the illegal demand, but the debtor himself may thus apply it if he elects to do so: Rohan v. Hanson, 11 Cush. (Mass.), 44; Stone v. Talbot. 4 Wis., 442. The creditor, when the debtor does not, may apply a payment even to a debt barred by the statute: Armistead v. Brooke, 18 Ark., 521. He may appropriate to the payment of the first items not barred at the time by the Statute of Limitations: Livermore v. Rand, 30 N. H., 85. It has been held that such application by the law shall be made as the debtor may be presumed to have done; in other words, as would be most for his interest at the time: Hilton v. Burley, 2 N. H., 193; Dorsey r. Garraway, 2 H. & J. (Md.), 402; Dedham Bank r. Chickering, 4 Pick., 314; U. States v. Bradbury, Davies (U. S. D. C.), 146. C. J. Gibson bas controverted this doctrine with great force and ability in Logan v. Mason, 6 W. & S. (Penn.), 9. The principles which regulate and control the appropriations of payments made on a running account, in the absence of directions from the debtor, look to the interest of the creditor; Johnson's Appeal, 37 Penn St., 268: Pierce v. Sweet, 33 Penn St., 151. When a debtor makes payments without specifying the There are cases where a payment is appropriated by law to several debts proportionally.

application, the creditor cannot apply them to debts not due if there are other debts which are due: Bacon v. Brown, 1 Bibb. (Ky.), 331; McDowell v. Canal Co., 5 Mas. (U.S. C. C.), 11; Soymour r. Soxon, 10 Watt. (Ponn.), 255. A dobtor or creditor cannot appropriate a payment in such manner as to affect the relative liabilities or 4 rights of sureties without their consent: Postmuster-General v. Norvell, Gilpin 106: Bank v. Brown 12 N. II., 320; Meyers v. U. States, 1 McLean (U. S. C. C.), 493. Tho holder of two notes of the same maker receiving from him in part payment a sum smaller than either can, in the absence of any appropriation by him, apply the whole sum upon either, but not half on each note without the debtor's approbation; Wheeler v. Heuse, 27 Vt., 735. The holder of several notes of the same maker has s right to impute a partial payment made on them to part of the notes, and is not bound to make the imputation to all pro rata: Blackman v. Leonard, 15 La. Ann., 59. If application be directed by neither, then the law will make the application according to equity: Postmaster-General v. Norvell, Gilpin (U. S. D. C.), 106; Harker v. Conrad, 12 S. & R. (Penn.), 301; U. States v. Kilpatrick, 9 Wheat., 720; Cremer v. Higginson, 1 Mas. (U. S. C. C.), 323; Gwinn v. Whitaker, 1 H. & J. (Md.), 754; Briggs v. Williams, 2 Vt., 283; Robinson v. Doolittle, 12 Vt., 256; Randall v. Parramore, 1 Branch (Fla.), 409; Bayley v. Wynkoop, 5 Gilman, 449. To the debt which is prior in date: Allston v. Contee, 4 H. & J. (Md.), 351; U. States v. Kirkpatrick, 9 Wheat. (U.S.), 720; Fuirchild v. Holly, 10 Conn., 175; Postmaster-General v. Furber, 4 Mas. (U. S. C. C.), 332; McKenzie v. Nevins, 21 Me., 138; Berghaus v. Alter, 9 Watts, 386; Boody v. U. States, 1 W. & M. (U. S. C. C.), 150; Upham v. Lafavour, 11 Met. (Mass.), 174 : U. States v. Bradbury, Daveis (U. S. D. C.), 146; Caldwell v. Wentworth, 14 N. II., 431; Pierco v. Sweet, 33 Penn. St., 151; Miller v. Laslore, 32 Miss., 634; Scott v. Cleveland, 33 Id., 445; Morgan v. Tarbell, 29 Vt., 493; Shedd v. Wilson, 28 Id., 478; Harrison v. Johnson, 27 Ala., 445; Allcott v. Strong, 9 Cush. (Mass.), 323; McKee v. The Comm., 2 Grant's Cas. (Penn.), 23; although such items accrue during the infancy of the debtor: Thurlow v. Gilmore, 40 Me., 378; and although the creditor may hold security for these items and none for the subsequent ones: Cushing v. Wyman, 44 Me., 121. Contra, Moss v. Adams, 4 Ired. (N. C.), Eq., 42; Jones v. Kilgore, 2 Rich. (S. C.), Eq., 63; Baim v. Williams, 10 S. & M. (Miss.), 113. If a payment is made generally to a party who holds a debt due to himself, and another due to himself and the plaintiff, he is bound as between himself and the plaintiff to apply the payment ratably upon the two debts: Colby v. Copp, 35 V. H., 434. Where money is placed in the hands of an agent to pay two notes pursuant to an agreement, and this fact is known to the holder, he has no right to appropriate it to the payment of one of them at his own option: Jones v. Perkins, 29 Miss., 139. To make an application of a payment, the person paying must give directions before or at the time of payment: Reynolds v. McFarlane, 1 Over. (Tenn.), 488; Moss v. Adams, 4 Ired. (N. C.), Eq., 42. If the debtor makes no appropriation at the time of payment, the creditor may appropriate at any time before suit: Haynes v. Wait, 14 Cal., 446. The rules in regard to the application of payments only apply where the debts are equally good in law: Green v. Tyler, 39 Penn. St., 361; Gill v. Rice, 13 Wis., 549; Smith v. Coopers, 9 Iowa, 376; Soloman v. Dreschler, 4 Minn., 278.

Where a partial payment is made on a debt, the law will make the application first to interest and then to principal: Gwinn v. Whitaker, 1 H. & J. (Md.), 754; Frazier v. Hyland, Id., 98; Prebles v. Gee, 1 Dev. (N. C.), 341; Spires v. Hamot, 8 W. & S. (Penn.), 17; DeBruhl v. Neusfer, 1 Strobh., (S. C.), 426; Boud v. Jones, 3 S. &

231 PAYMENT.

Thus, where a principal debtor has assigned his effects to a trustee for his creditors, a creditor who has a guarantee for part of his debt will be forced, even at law, to apply in discharge thereof a ratable part of any payment that he may receive from the trustee.<sup>1</sup>

M. (Miss.), 368; Righter v. Stall, 3 Sand (N. Y.), 608; Jencks v. Alexander, 11 Paige (N. Y.), 619; Hart v. Dorman, 2 Fla., 445; Stewart v. Stebbins, 30 Miss., 66; Mc-Fadden v. Forteir, 20 Ill., 509; Johnson v. Johnson, 5 Jones (N. Y.), Eq., 167; Hampton v. Dean, 4 Tex., 451; Hearn v. Culbirth, 10 Id., 216. The law will apply a payment to the principal, and not to the discharge of usurious interest: Stanley v. Westrop, 16 Tex., 200. When it is proved that a payment was made in a certain year, but the day and month cannot be shown, the court will direct the credit to be given as of the last day of the year, a day most favorable to the creditor: Byers v. Fowler, 14 Ark., 86.

For general rules, see King r. Andrews. 30 Ind., 429: Nuttall v. Brannin, 5 Bush. (Ky.), 11; McDaniel v. Barnes, Id., 183: Leef r. Goodwin, Taney (U. S.), 460; Champenoes v. Fort, 45 Wis., 335; Marshall v. Sloan, 26 Ark., 513; Waterman v. Younge, 49 Mo., 413; Howard v. McCall, 21 Grat. (Va.), 205.

Payments on several promissory notes by the maker are to be applied to the pay. ment of such of the notes as are matured, and the balance on account of those not due, in the absence of directions: Cloney r. Richardson, 34 Mo., 370. The holder of several bills of exchange may appropriate a payment by the acceptor to either one of them, when the acceptor has expressed no preference: Holmes v. Pratt, 34 Ga., 558; Fargo v. Buell, 21 Iowa, 292. Creditor may apply payment in the absence of direction by the debtor. If neither party makes application, it is to be applied to the demand which first accrued: Berrian v. New York, 4 Rob. (N. Y.) 538; Horne v. Planters' Bank, 32 Ga., 1; Wendt v. Ross, 33 Cal., 650. A creditor. receiving payments from his debtor without direction may apply them to a debt on which the Statute of Frauds does not allow an action to be maintained, such debt not being illegal; for example, on a verbal promise to pay the debt of another; Haynes r. Nice, 100 Mass., 327. When a debtor upon several notes, barred by the Statute of Limitations, makes a general payment without restricting the creditor's right of applications, the creditor may so apply it as to take all the notes out of the operation of the statute: Jackson v. Burke, 1 Dill. (U. S. C. C.), 311. Creditor cannot apply to a debt for which he cannot maintain an action: Kidder r. Norris, 18 N. H., 532. Payments must be applied to that which is lawfully due, and not to usurious interest: Duncan v. Nelson, La. Ann., 418. In cases of running accounts, payments ought to be applied to extinguish the debts according to priority of time: Leef v. Good win, Taney (U.S.), 460; Sprague v. Hazenwinkle, 53 Ill., 419; Moon v. Gray, 22 La. Ann., 289; Crompton v. Pratt, 105 Mass., 255. Payments by a debtor upon a running account made partly before and partly after his discharge in bankruptcy, of which the creditor had no notice, may be applied by the latter to the items first due: Hill v. Robbins, 22 Mich., 475. A payment of usury will be applied in law to the payment of the debt legally due: Burrows v. Cook, 17 Iowa, 436. When a debtor makes a payment to a creditor who has two demands, both due, and neither makes application, and one of the debts is afterwards barred by the statute, the law will apply it to the demand which is barred: Robinson's Adm'rs v. Allison, 36 Ala., 525.

1 Baidwell v. Lydall, 7 Bing., 489 (20 E. C. L. R.); see Raikes r. Todd, 1 P. & D., 132; 8 Åd. & E., 846 (35 E. C. L. R.), s. c.; Paley v. Field, 12 Ves., Jr., 435. See other 358

\*Part payment of the debt by the party liable is no discharge of the whole debt, but part payment by a stranger may be. And it has been held that where a promissory note is due and unpaid, so that not only the principal, but interest (at least to a nominal amount) is due also, the principal may be taken in satisfaction of the debt and damages.

As the lapse of twenty years is sufficient to raise a presumption that a bond has been paid, so it has been held to be a good defence to an action on a promissory note payable on demand. But if during this period the plaintiff was an alien enemy, and payment to him would consequently have been illegal, such a presumption would not, it seems, arise.

The production of a check drawn by the defendant on his banker and indorsed by the plaintiff is evidence of payment; but not if there have been several transactions between the parties without evidence to connect the delivery of the check with the payment in question. A bill or note once in circulation overdue and coming out of the hands of the acceptor or maker is presumed to be paid. Thus it is a maxim of the Scotch law, chirographum apud debitorum repertum præsumitur solutum. But the mere production of a bill from the custody of the acceptor is not prima facie evidence of his having paid it, without proof of its having been once in circulation after it had been accepted.

instances of ratable appropriation in Favenc v. Bennett, 11 East, 36, and Perris v. Roberts, 1 Vernou, 34; 2 Chan. Ca., 83, s. c.; Thompson v. Hudson, L. R., 6 Chan. Ap., 320.

- Fitch r. Sutton, 5 East, 230. When a bill or note may be satisfaction, see post, chap. xvi. A part payment of what a person is bound in law to pay forms no consideration for postponing the residue; neither can the verbal promise of the plaintiff to postpone the payment of the balance be enforced: Price v. Cannon, 3 Mo., 453; Wheeler v. Wheeler, 11 Vt., 60.
  - <sup>2</sup> Welby v. Drake, 1 C. & P., 557 (12 E. C. L. R.).
  - <sup>8</sup> Beaumont v. Greathead, 3 D. & L., 631; 2 C. B., 494 (52 E. C. L. R.), s. c.
  - <sup>4</sup> See now 3 & 4 Will. 4, c. 42, s. 3.

    <sup>5</sup> Duffield v. Creed, 5 Esp., 52.
  - <sup>6</sup> Du Beloix v. Lord Waterpark, 1 D. & R., 16.
  - <sup>7</sup> Egg v. Barnett, 3 Esp., 196.
  - <sup>8</sup> Aubert v. Walsh, 4 Taunt., 293.
- Pfiel v. Vanbatenberg, 2 Camp., 439. If a bill be sent to the drawee and he be directed to pass it to the credit of the holder, and do so credit it, the bill is functus oficio, and cannot be further negotiated: Savage v. Merle, 5 Pick. (Mass.), 85. Where a promissory note that has been negotiated comes into the possession of one of the parties liable to pay it, such possession is prima facie evidence of payment by him, and he is to be treated as the bona fide holder unless the contrary is made to appear: