Bills or notes are not the subjects of larceny at the common law; for it is said that bills or notes are chose in action, and a chose in action cannot be stolen. But by the 24 & 25 Vict., c. 96, s. 27, the stealing of any bill, note, warrant or order for the payment of money, is made felony, of the same nature and in the same degree, and punishable in the same manner, as larceny of any chattel of like value with the money due on the security.

The embezzlement of bills or notes by clerks or servants is felony.2

[\*181] The embezzlement of bills or notes by agents not being \*clerks or servants, or the selling, negotiating or pledging them in violation of the purpose for which, by a written direction, they were intrusted, and disposing of them for the agent's own benefit, is a misdemeanor subjecting to penal servitude.<sup>3</sup>

Where a man is both entitled and liable on the face of a bill, or liable to contribute, though his liability do not appear on the face of the instrument, he cannot sue. But the technical difficulty may be removed by indorsements or transfer before the bill is due.

Eighthly, as to the circumstances under which equity would restrain negotiation. A court of equity would interpose to restrain the negotiation of a bill unduly obtained; for the defence at law might not be available as against an innocent indersee for value, or time may destroy the evidence; and would. on equitable terms,

As a general rule a piece of paper or parchment, whether blank or inscribed with any characters, is the subject of larcen. But there are at common law two exceptions, first, a muniment of title to land, which, it is held, savors of the realty; secondly, a written paper which is mere evidence of a right, resting in contract only, like a bill, note, bond or executory agreement. A reason given in both these cases is this, that the documents are of no use to any but the owner, and therefore are not in danger of being stolen. On which it has been well remarked that "if I steal a skin of parchment worth 1s. it is felony, but when it has 10,000L added to its value by what is written upon it, then it is no offence to take it away: "Rex v. Westbeer, 2 Stra., 1133. These exceptions are palpably capricious and unreasonable, and are not to be extended. Therefore, it has been held that a pawnbroker's ticket may be the subject of larceny: Reg. v. Morrison, 28 L. J., 210, Mag Ca.

<sup>2 24 &</sup>amp; 25 Viet., c. 96, s. 68.

<sup>8 24 &</sup>amp; 25 Vict., c. 96, s. 75.

<sup>4</sup> See Steele v. Harmer, 15 L. J., Exch., 217; 14 M. & W., 831, and 4 Exch., in error, and ante.

Bromley v. Holland, 7 Ves. 20, 413; Bishop of Winchester v. Fournier, 2 Ves. Jr., 483; 3 Ves., 757; 9 Ves., 355. As to the parties to the suit, see Toley v. Carlon, 1 Younge, 373. But the court will not order a bill to be delivered up unless the plaintiff has a right to the possession, and the defendant's retention of the bill

decree a bill void in its creation, or unduly obtained, to be delivered up to be cancelled.1

is inequitable: Jones v. Lane, 3 Y. & C., 281. In Threlfall v. Lunt, 7 Sim., 627, a demurrer was allowed to a bill for the delivery up of a bill of exchange, the amount of which the defendant had recovered at law, and had received from the plaintiff; but see Pinkus v. Peters, 6 Jurist, 431.

5 2 Ves. Jr., 488; 7 Ves., 413; 2 Ves. & Beam., 302; Mackworth v. Marshall, 3 Sim., 368; Osbaldiston v. Simpson, 13 Sim., 513. So where the name of the payee, as indorser, was forged, a bona fide holder was restrained from suing the acceptor, and the court directed the bill to be delivered up to be cancelled: Esdaile v. La Nauze, 1 Y. & C., 394; Jones v. Lane, 3 Y. & C., 281.

## OF THE PRESENTMENT FOR ACCEPTANCE.

| Advisable in all Cas              | 05, | •    | •  | • | 182 | To whom it should be made,    | 185 |
|-----------------------------------|-----|------|----|---|-----|-------------------------------|-----|
| Necessary where Bi                |     |      |    |   |     | What Time may be given to the | 200 |
| or) after Sight,                  | •   |      | •  |   | 182 | <b>!</b>                      | 195 |
| When to be made,                  | •   |      | •  |   | 183 | Consequence of Negligence in  |     |
| Bank Holidays,                    | •   | •    | •  | • | 184 | Party presenting,             | 185 |
| At what Hour,                     |     |      |    | • | 184 | Proper Course for Holder when |     |
| Excused by putting Bill into Cir- |     |      |    |   |     | Drawee cannot be found or is  |     |
| culation, .                       |     | •    | •  |   | 181 | [                             | 185 |
| Or by other reasona               | ble | Caus | e, |   | 185 | . The second second           | 186 |

It is in all cases advisable for the holder of an unaccepted bill to present it for acceptance without delay; for, in case of acceptance, the holder obtains the additional security of the acceptor, and, if acceptance be refused, the antecedent parties become liable immediately. It is advisable, too, on account of the drawer, for, by receiving early advice of dishonor, he may be better able to get his effects out of the drawee's hands.<sup>1</sup>

But presentment for acceptance is not necessary in the case of a bill payable at a certain period after date.2 It is said, however,

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> A bill payable at a given time after date need not be presented for acceptance, payment may be at once demanded at its maturity: Bank of Washington v. Triplett, 1 Pet. (U.S.), 25, Townsley v. Sumrall, 2 Id., 170; Walker r. Stetson, 19 Ohio St., 400; Plato v. Reynolds, 17 N. Y., 568; House v. Adams, 12 Wright (Penn.), 261, A bill of exchange payable at a time certain need not be presented for acceptance until maturity; but if it is dishonored, notice and protest is necessary: Carmichael v. Pennsylvania Bank, 4 How. (Miss.), 567; Bank of Bennington v. Raymond, 12 Vt., 401; Glasgow v. Copeland, 8 Mo., 268. The holder is not bound to present before maturity; but if he does, and acceptance is refused, he is bound to give immediate notice: Landrum v. Trowbridge, 2 Met. (Mass.), 281. Upon protest for non-acceptance of a sight bill, and notice given to the drawers and indersers, they are immediately liable to the holder without again presenting the bill on the last day of grace: Lucas v. Laden, 28 Mo., 342. Upon non-acceptance and notice, the holder may sue the drawer without waiting for the maturity of the bill: Watson r. Tarpley, 18 How. (U. S.), 517. Whenever it is incumbent on the holder to present, if he fails to do so he will lose not only his remedy on the bill, but also on the consideration or debt in respect of which it was given or transferred: Adams r. Darby, 28 Mo., 162.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup> United States v. Barker, 4 Wash. (U.S. C.C.), 464; Venott v. Whitfield. 99 N. C., 76. Bills payable "at sight," "after sight" must be presented for acceptance: 292

that it is incumbent on a holder who is a mere agent, and on the payee, when expressly directed by the drawer so to do, to present the bill for acceptance as soon as possible; and that, for loss arising from the neglect, the payee must be responsible, and the agent must answer to his principal.<sup>1</sup>

Presentment for acceptance is necessary if the bill be drawn payable (at sight or) at a certain period after sight. Till such presentment there is no right of action against any party; and unless it be made within a reasonable time, the holder loses his remedy against the antecedent parties.

\*What is a reasonable time depends on the circumstances of each particular case, and is a mixed question of law and fact; although reasonable time in general, and reasonable time for giving notice of dishonor in particular, is clearly a question of law. Plaintiff, on Friday, the 9th, at Windsor, twenty miles from London, received a bill on London, at one month after sight, for 100l. There was no post on Saturday. It was presented on the Tuesday. The jury thought it was presented within a reasonable time, and the court concurred.

Allen v. Luydain, 20 Wend. (N. Y.), 321; Robinson v. Ames, 20 John. (N. Y.), 146; Wallace v. Agry, 4 Mas. (U. S.), 336.

<sup>1</sup> Chit., 9th ed., 237; Poth., 128; Marius, 46.

When the words "acceptance waived" are embodied in a bill, the ordinary proceedings on acceptance are dispensed with and merged into those of payment or non-payment: Webb v. Mears, 45 Penn. St., 222.

The waiver of acceptance by the drawer has the effect of putting him in the same situation as if it had been presented and acceptance refusea: Carson's Adm'r v. Russell, 26 Tex., 452. In the case of a check, it should be presented at the bank with reasonable diligence: Holmes v. Roe, 62 Mich., 199.

- Now by 34 & 35 Vict., c. 74, a bill or note payable at sight is payable on demand; see post, p. 211; and acceptance and payment are simultaneous.
- <sup>4</sup> Muilman v. D'Eguino, 2 H. Bl., 565; Fry v. Hill, 7 Taunt., 395 (2 E. C. L. R.); Shute v. Robins, 1 M. & M., 133; 3 C. & P., 80 (14 E. C. L. R.), 8 c.; Mellish v. Rawdon, 9 Bing., 416 (23 E. C. L. R.); 2 M. & Sc., 570, 8. c.; Mullick v. Radakissen, 9 Moore, P. C. Cases, 46.
- Fry v. Hill, 7 Taunt., 395 (2 E. C. L. R.). There is no fixed rule for the presentment of a bill payable at sight or a certain number of days after sight; but the holder must use due diligence to put the bill into circulation, and it must be presented within a reasonable time: Robinson v. Ames, 20 John. (N. Y.), 146; Wallace v. Agry, 4 Mason (U. S.), 336; s. c., 5 Mas. (U. S.), 118; Aymar v. Beers, 7 Cow. (N. Y.), 705; Bachellor v. Priest, 12 Pick. (Mass.), 399. A bill payable on demand must be presented within a reasonable time, or the drawer will be discharged: Etting v. Shook, 2 Hall (N. Y.), 459; see Dumont v. Pope, 7 Blackf. (Md.), 367. An order for money not drawn on time is payable on presentment and must be presented within a reasonable time, and if not paid the payee may have the draft protested and sue the drawer

A bill drawn by bankers in the country on their correspondents in London, payable after sight, was indorsed to the traveller of the plaintiffs. He transmitted it to the plaintiffs after the interval of a week, and they, two days afterwards, transmitted it for acceptance. Before it was presented to the drawees the drawer had become bankrupt; the drawees, consequently, refused to accept. Had the bill been sent by the traveller to the plaintiffs, his employers, as soon as he received it, they would have been able to get it accepted before the bankruptcy. "This is," says Lord Tenterden, "a mixed question of law and fact; and, in expressing my own opinion, I do not wish at all to withdraw the case from the jury. Whatever strictness may be required with respect to common bills of exchange. payable after sight, it does not seem unreasonable to treat bills of this nature, drawn by bankers on their correspondents, as not requiring immediate presentment, but as being retainable by the holders for the purpose of using them, within a moderate time (for indefinite delay, of course, cannot be allowed), as part of the circulating medium of the country." The jury concurred with his lordship, that the delay was not unreasonable. Where the purchaser of a bill on Rio Janeiro, at sixty days' sight, the exchange being against him, kept it nearly five months, and the drawee failed before presentment, it was held that the delay was not unreasonable.

"The bill," says Tindal, C. J., "must be forwarded within a reasonable time under all the circumstances of the case, and there must be no unreasonable or improper delay. Whether there has been, in any particular case, reasonable diligence used, or whether

at once: Gallagher v. Raleigh, 7 Ind., 1. That a draft or check must be presented within a reasonable time, see Veazie Bank v. Winn, 40 Me., 60; Hooker v. Franklin 2 Bonsall, 500; East River Bank v. Godney, 4 E. D. S. (N.Y. C. P.), 582; Wesk v. Mad River Valley Bank, 8 Ohio St., 301; Phænix Ins. Co. v. Allen, 11 Mich., 501; Vantrot v. McCullough, 2 Hilt. (N. Y. C. P.), 272. An order by the secretary on the treasurer of a private corporation must be presented within a reasonable time: English v. Trustees, 6 Indiana, 438. Laches of the holder in presenting a check, will not discharge the drawer unless he is injured thereby: Morrison v. McCartney, 30 Mo., 153.

What is a reasonable time within which a draft must be presented to the drawed depends upon the circumstances of the case: Knott v. Venable, 42 Ala., 186; Fugitt v. Fixon, 44 Mo., 295; Salisbury v. Renick, Id., 554; Walsh v. Dart, 23 Wis., 334.

As to due diligence in making demand or giving notice, see Gawtry v. Doan, 51 N. Y., 84; Mount v. Bank, 37 Iowa, 457; Herbert v. Servin, 41 N. J. Law, 225; Bank v. Adams, 11 S. C., 452.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> Shute v. Robins, 1 M. & M., 133; 3 C. & P., 80 (14 E. C. L. R.), s. c. 294

unreasonable delay has occurred, is a mixed question of law and fact, to \*be decided by the jury, acting under the direction of the judge, upon the particular circumstances of each case."

But where a bill, payable after sight, was drawn in duplicate on the 12th of August, in Newfoundland, and not presented for acceptance in London till November 16th, and no circumstances were proved to excuse the delay, it was held unreasonable, the court laying some stress on the fact that the bill was drawn in sets.

When the day on which a bill or note would otherwise be presented for acceptance is a bank holiday it is sufficient to present it on the morrow.

Presentment should be made during the usual hours of business.4

The holder may, however, put the bill into circulation without presenting it. "If a bill drawn at three days' sight," says Mr Justice Buller, "be kept out in circulation for a year, I cannot say that there would be laches; but if, instead of putting it into circulation, the holder were to lock it up for any length of time, I should say that he would be guilty of luches." "But this cannot mean," says Tindal, C. J., "that keeping it in hand for any time, however short, would make him guilty of laches. It can never be required of him instantly on receipt of it, under all disadvantages, to put it into circulation. To hold the purchaser bound by such an obligation would impede, if not altogether destroy, the market for buying and selling foreign bills, to the great injury, no less than to the inconvenience, of the drawer himself." Two bills, one for 400l., the other for 500l., were drawn from Lisbon, on May 12, at thirty days after sight, indorsed to G. at Paris, and by G to R. at Genoa, and by R. indorsed over. They were not pre-

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> Mellish r. Rawdon, 9 Bing., 416 (23 E. C. L. R.); 2 M. & Sc., 570, s. c.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup> Straker v. Graham, 4 M. & W., 721.

<sup>34</sup> Vict. c., 17. The bank holidays in England are Easter Monday, Whit Monday, first Monday in August, 26th December (if a week day), otherwise the 27th: 35 Vict. c., 13, s., 2.

<sup>4</sup> Mar., 112; Parker v. Gordon. 7 East, 335; 6 Esp., 41, s. c.; Leftley v. Bailey, 4 T. R., 170. Business hours, except in the case of banks, range through the whole day, down to the hours of rest in the evening: Cayuga Bank v. Hunt, 2 Hill (N. Y.), 635; Nehon v. Fotteral, 7 Leigh (Va.), 179; Reed v. Wilson, 41 N. J., Law, 29.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>5</sup> Muilman v. D'Eguino, 2 H. Bl., 565.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>6</sup> Mellish r. Rawdon, 9 Bing., 416 (23 E. C. L. R.); 2 M. & Sc., 570, s. c.

[\*185] court concurred, that the bills were, \*under the circumstances, presented within a reasonable time.

Illness or other reasonable cause not attributable to the misconduct of the holder will excuse. But the holder must present, even should the drawer have desired the drawer not to accept, though, as we shall see, the drawer in that case need have no notice of non-acceptance.<sup>3</sup>

The presentment must be made either to the drawee himself or to his authorized agent. The holder's servant called at the drawee's residence and showed the bill to some person in the drawee's tanyard, who refused to accept it; but the witness did not know the drawee's person, nor could he swear that the person to whom he offered the bill was he or represented himself to be so. Lord Ellenborough: "The evidence here offered proves no demand on the drawee, and is, therefore, insufficient."

When the bill is presented it is reasonable that the drawee should be allowed some time to deliberate whether he will accept or no. It seems that he may demand twenty-four hours for this purpose (and that the holder will be justified in leaving the bill with him for that period), at least, if the post do not go out in the interim, or unless, in the interim, he either accepts or declares his resolution not

Goupy v. Arden, 7 Taunt., 160 (2 E. C. L. R.); 2 Marsh., 454, s. c. In America it is held that though put into circulation it must still be presented within a reasonable time.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup> Hill v. Heap, D. & R., N. P. C., 57.

<sup>3</sup> One partner may waive the presentment of a bill drawn by the partnership without special authority: Bank v. Lonergan's Adm., 21 Miss., 46. When the words "acceptance waived" are embodied in a bill, the ordinary proceedings on acceptance are dispensed with and merged into those of payment or non-payment: Webb v. Mears, 9 Wright (Penn.), 222,

<sup>\*</sup> Sharpe v. Drea, 9 Ind., 281.

<sup>5</sup> Cheek a. Boper, 5 Esp., 175. If a bill is drawn upon two persons not partners it should be presented to both unless paid by the first: Arnold v. Dresser, 8 Allen (Mass.), 435; Willis r. Green, 5 Hill (N. Y.), 232; Gates v. Bucker, 60 N. Y., 523.

It is sufficient if the bill is presented to a person in charge of the drawce's place of business where such matters are usually attended to: Nelson v. Fotterall, 7 Leigh. (Va.), 180, and it seems that the death of the drawee does not excuse presentment: Thomson on Bills, 282.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>6</sup> Marius, 15; Com. Dig. Merch. F., 6; Bellasis v. Hester, 1 Ld. Raym., 281. See the observations of Lord Cairns, Van Diemen's Bank v. Victoria Bank, L. R., 3 Pr. C., 526; 40 L. J., Pr. C., 8.

was equal. If more than twenty-four hours be given, the holder ought to inform the antecedent parties of it.2

If the owner of a bill who leaves it for acceptance by his negligence enable a stranger to give such a description of it as to obtain it from the drawee without negligence on the drawee's part, the owner cannot maintain trover for it against the drawee.

In case the bill is directed to the drawee at a particular place, it is to be considered as dishonored if the drawee \* has absected to But, if he have merely changed his residence, or if the bill is not directed to him at any particular place, it is incumbent on the holder to use due diligence to find him out. And due diligence is a question of fact for the jury. If the drawee be dead the holder should inquire after his personal representative, and, provided he live within a reasonable distance, present the bill to him.

In an action against the drawer for non-acceptance, it is not sufficient to allege mere non-acceptance; presentment for acceptance must be alleged.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> Bayley, 194, 6th ed.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup> Ingram v. Foster, 52 Penn. St., 242. Drawee is entitled to twenty-four hours before acceptance or refusal: Case v. Burt, 15 Mich., 82.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>5</sup> Morrison v. Buchanan, 6 C. & P., 18 (25 E. C. L. R.).

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>4</sup> Anon., 1 Ld. Raym., 743; Ratcliff v. Planters' Bank, 2 Sneed (Tenn.), 425; Union Bank v. Fowlkes, Id., 555. Where the bill is addressed to the drawee at a particular house the presentment there is sufficient, unless the holder knows the true residence or place of business: Pierce v. Struthers, 27 Penn. St., 249.

<sup>5</sup> Collins v. Butler, 2 Stra., 1087; Bateman v. Joseph, 12 East, 433. The general question is, did the parties use reasonable diligence, under the circumstances, for the purpose of getting the bill accepted and paid: Per L. J. Mellish, in Smith v. Bank of New South Wales, L. R., 41 L. J., Pr. C., 26.

<sup>6</sup> Chitty, 9th ed., 357.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>7</sup> Mercer v. Southwell, 2 Show., 180.

## \* CHAPTER XIII.

## OF ACCEPTANCE.

| Meaning of the Word,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | 187   | What engagement Holder may re-     |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------|------------------------------------|
| Liability of Drawee before Accept-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |       | Opire of Acceptor                  |
| ance,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | 187   | What should be his conduct in case |
| A Draft dispensing with Accept-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |       | of anglified Amonton               |
| ance,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | 188   | Onalified Accordance               |
| Liability of a Banker at whose Bank                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |       | Conditional Acceptance, 196        |
| a Bill is made payable by the Ac-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |       | Partial or varying Acceptance, 197 |
| ceptor,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | 188   | 7                                  |
| Liability to the Customer,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | 188   | 1                                  |
| Liability of the Banker to a Holder,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | 188   | 1 17 / 27                          |
| By whom it may be accepted, .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | 189   | 7.134                              |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |       | Delivery or Notice necessary to    |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | 190   | 1                                  |
| Before Bill filled up,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |       | Cancellation of Acceptance by      |
| Market and the second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second second s | 191   | 1 4                                |
| After due, or after prior refusal to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |       | By Banker,                         |
| accept,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | 192   | By other Parties, 199              |
| Presumption as to Time of Accept-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |       | Liability of Acceptor, 199         |
| ance,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |       | How discharged, 198                |
| Acceptance of Inland Bills must be                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |       | By Waiver,                         |
| <del>-</del>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | 192   | Caucellation by the Holder, 201    |
| _ ,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | I     |                                    |
| What might have amounted to an                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | _ = - | Pleading,                          |
| *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | 193   | What Acceptance admits, 202        |
| <u> </u>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |       | Where Drawce precluded from dis-   |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | 194   |                                    |
| Is irrevocable,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | 194   | Forgery,                           |
| What else amounted to an Accept-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | ***   | Obligation to accept,              |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | 194   |                                    |
| ence of it Loreign min,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | 104   |                                    |

ACCEPTANCE, in its ordinary signification, is an engagement by the drawee to pay the bill when due, in money.2

Before the acceptance the drawee is not liable to the holder.3

[\* 188] \*An instrument drawn by A. upon B., requiring him to pay to the order of C. a certain sum at a certain time

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> Clark v. Cock, 4 East, 72.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup> Russell v. Phillips, 19 L. J., Q. B., 297; 14 Q. B., 891 (68 E. C. L. R.), s. c.

<sup>\*</sup> See Frith v. Forbes, 31 L. J., Chan., 793; 32 L. J., Chan., 10, s. c. Until acceptance, the drawer is not liable upon the bill: Poole v. Carhart, 71 Ia., 37. A conditional acceptance becomes binding upon the happening of the condition: Hughes v. Fisher, 10 Col., 383; Everard v. Warner, 36 Minn., 383; French Spiral Spring Co. v.

"without acceptance," is still a bill of exchange, and may be so described in an indictment for forgery."

A bill is often by the acceptor made payable at a banker's. By such a direction on a bill the banker incurs liabilities to his customer, and may incur a liability to the holder.

We have already seen that, without acceptance, a banker may be liable to his customer, if having sufficient funds, he neglect to pay his checks. So a banker at whose house a customer accepting a bill makes it payable is liable to an action at the suit of that customer if he refuse to pay it, having at the time of presentment funds sufficient, and having had those funds a reasonable time, so that his clerks and servants might know it.

Yet if he do pay a holder whose title depends on a forged indorsement, he cannot charge his customer with the payment.<sup>3</sup>
But it has been said by the Court of Exchequer Chamber that he\nis protected if he pay any one who can give a valid discharge.<sup>4</sup>
Yet, notwithstanding this, it may well be doubted whether in the
case of a bill made or become payable to bearer he is in as good a
situation as an ordinary transferree, whose title is not affected by
mere negligence. For the banker, as agent for the customer, undertakes to conduct himself with reasonable care. An honest but
negligent payment, which may entitle the banker to the bill as
against the true owner, may be insufficient to enable him to charge
his customer.

Where a bill is accepted payable at a banker's, though money had been remitted by the acceptor to the banker for the express purpose of paying the bill, the banker is not liable to the holder in an action for money had and received, unless he have assented to

N. E. Car Tr. Co., 32 Fed. Rep., 44: Hunt v. Williams, 15 R. I., 595. The holder for value of a bill drawn in pursuance of a promise to accept by the drawee, and taken on the faith of such promise, may maintain an action in his own name against the drawee on his refusal to accept: Barney v. Newcomb, 9 Cush. (Mass.), 46.

Miller v. Thomson, 3 M. & G., 576 (42 E. C. L. R.); Reg. v. Kinnear, 2 M. & Rob., 117. In such instances, the bill is negotiable, and the drawer is bound the same as he would be upon an accepted bill: Carson v. Russell, 26 Tex., 452; Denegre v. Milne, 10 La. Ann., 324; Webb v. Mears, 9 Wright (Penn.), 222.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup> See Whitaker v. The Bank of England, 6 C. & P., 700 (25 E. C. 7. B.), and 1 C., M. & R., 744; 1 Gale, 54, s. c.; Rolin v. Steward, 14 C. B., 595 (78 E. C. L. R.); Robatter. Tucker, 16 Q. B., 560 (71 E. C. L. R.).

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>5</sup> Robarts v. Tucker, 16 Q. B., 560 (71 E. C. L. R.).

<sup>4</sup> Ibid.

hold the money for the purpose for which it was remitted.¹ But where there is anything in the conduct or situation of the backer which \*amounts to an assent to hold the remittance upon trust to discharge the bill, he is liable to the holder.²

A bill can only be accepted by the drawee, and not by a stranger, except for honor. Where, indeed, the bill was not addressed to any one, but only indicated the place of payment, the acceptor was held liable as having admitted himself to be the party pointed out by the place of payment. But this decision goes to the very verge of the law.

If the drawee be incompetent to contract, as for example, by reason of infancy or coverture,7 the bill may be treated as dishonored.

We have already seen<sup>8</sup> that one partner may, by his acceptance, bind his co-partners. But, if a bill be drawn upon several persons not in partnership, it should be accepted by all, and, if not, may be treated as dishonored. Acceptance will, however, be as binding upon such of them as do accept. 10

There cannot be two or more separate acceptors of the same bill not jointly responsible. A. refused to supply B. with goods unless C. would become his surety. C. agreed to do it. Goods to the value of 1571. were accordingly sold by A. to B. For the amount A. drew on B., and the bill was accepted both by B. and C., each

<sup>1</sup> Williams v. Everett, 14 East, 582; Yates v. Bell, 3 B. & Ald., 643 (5 E.C. L. R.); Wedlake v. Hurley, 1 C. & J., 83; ante, p. 23.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup> De Bernales v. Fuller, 14 East, 590, n.; 2 Camp., 426; and see the observations of Abbott, C. J., on this case, in Yates v. Bell, 3 B. & Ald., 643 (5 E. C. L. R.).

<sup>3</sup> Nichols v. Diamond, 9 Exch., 157. Unless he have recognized the acceptance as his. See Lindus v. Bradwell, 5 C. B., 583 (57 E. C. L. R.), and p. 38.

<sup>4</sup> Polhill v. Walter, 3 B. & Ad., 114 (23 E. C. L. R.); 1 L. J., K. B., 92; Eastwood v. Bain, 28 L. J., Ex., 74; 3 H. & N., 738, s. c.; Davis v. Clarke, 13 L. J., Q. B. 305; 6 Q. B., 16 (51 E. C. L. R.), s. c.; see Jenkins v. Hutchinson, 18 L. J., Q. B., 274; 13 Q. B., 744 (66 E. C. L. R.), s. c.; May v. Kelly, 27 Ala., 497; Kiennau v. Nash, 8 Minn., 409.

<sup>5</sup> Gray v. Milner, 8 Taunt., 739 (4 E. C. L. R.).

<sup>6</sup> See observations of Patteson, J., in Davis v. Clarke, supra, and of Martin, B., in Peto v. Reynolds, 9 Exch., 410.

<sup>7</sup> Chit., 9th ed., 283.

<sup>8</sup> Chapter v.

<sup>9</sup> Mar., 16; Dupays v. Shepherd, Holt's R., 297; Marius, 64.

 <sup>&</sup>lt;sup>10</sup> B. N. P., 270; Bayley, 58; Owen v. Von Uster, 10 C. B., 318 (70 E. C. L. R.);
 Nichols v. Diamond, 9 Exch., 154.

<sup>11</sup> Smith r. Sockridge, 8 Bush. (Ky.), 425.

<sup>300</sup> 

writing his name on it. Lord Ellenborough: "If you had declared that, in consequence of A. selling the goods to B., C. undertook that the bill should be paid, you might have fixed C. by this evidence. But I know of no custom or usage of merchants according to which, if a bill be drawn upon one man, it may be accepted by two; the acceptance of the defendant is contrary to the usage and custom of merchants. A bill must \*be accepted by the [\*190] drawee, or, failing him, by some one for the honor of the drawer. There cannot be a series of acceptors. The defendant's undertaking is clearly collateral, and ought to have been declared upon as such." But, although there can be no other acceptor after a general acceptance of the drawee, it is said that when a bill has been accepted supra protest for the honor of one party, it may, by another individual, be accepted supra protest for the honor of another. We shall hereafter consider the subject of acceptance supra protest in a distinct chapter. A bill may, as we have seen, be addressed to the drawer himself and accepted by him; but it is then rather a promissory note than a bill of exchange.

We have already seen that the signature of a drawer, maker or indorser, on a blank form, delivered to be filled up as a negotiable instrument, will bind them respectively; so an acceptance, written on the paper before the bill is made and delivered by the acceptor, will also charge the acceptor to the extent warranted by the stamp. It is not even necessary that the bill should be drawn by the same person to whom the acceptor handed the blank acceptance. And where a blank acceptance was filled up after the

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> Jackson v. Hudson, 2 Camp. 447.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>3</sup> Jackson r. Hudson, 2 Camp., 447, n.; Beawes 42.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>8</sup> Chapter vii.

Though the bill be antedated, Armfield v. Armport, 27 L. J., Exch., 42, no lisbility attaches before delivery: In re Hayward, L. R., 6 Chan. Ap., 546; 40 L. J., Bank., 49. A person signing his name on a blank paper and delivering it to another authorizes him to fill up the blank with any sum: Bank of Limestone v. Penick, 5 Mon. (Ky.), 25; Van Duzer v. Howe, 21 N. Y., 531. Where a note is signed and delivered, with a blank left for the sum payable, though the first holder is restricted as to the amount to be inserted, yet, if the note comes into the hands of another, who, without notice of the restriction, fills the blank with a larger sum, the maker will be bound by it: Bank of Commonwealth v. Curry, 2 Dana (Ky.), 142; Moody v. Threlkeld, 13 Ga., 55.

Shultz v. Astley, 2 Bing., N. C., 544 (29 E. C. L. R.); 2 Scott, 815; 1 Hodges, 525; 7 C. & P., 99 (32 E. C. L. R.), s. c. But must be drawn bona fide: Hogarth v. Latham L. R., 3 Q. B. D., 643. The acceptor is estopped as against the transferree for value

lapse of twelve years, and, as the jury found, after the lapse of a reasonable time, the acceptor was held liable to a bona fide indorsee. But it is conceived that the case of a blank acceptance not delivered at all, but lost or stolen, at least without any negligence of the writer, is distinguishable.

[\*191] \*An acceptance for value, before the bill is filled up, is irrevocable. Notice that the acceptance was in blank should put the holder on inquiry.

It was formerly held (in cases where an acceptance in writing on the bill was not necessary) that a promise to accept, given before the bill was made, amounted to an acceptance. Thus a promise by the defendants that they would accept such bills as the plaintiff should, in about a month's time, draw on the defendant for 800l., has been held an acceptance of such bill subsequently drawn. But it was said that a subsequent holder could not avail himself of such an engagement, unless it was communicated to him at the time he took the bill. "A promise to accept," says Gibbs, C. J., "not communicated to the person who takes the bill, does not amount to an acceptance; but if the person be thereby induced to take a bill, he gains a right equivalent to an actual acceptance against the party who has given the promise to accept." But it is now

to deny the regularity of the acceptance. In America it is held that if the blank paper come into the hands of a holder without notice he may fill up the blank with a larger sum than the original holder was authorized to insert.

1 Montague v. Perkins, 22 L. J., C. P., 188.

- See the question put by Cresswell, J., to counsel in Montague v. Perkins, 22 L. J., C. P., 189, to which the answer of counsel does not appear satisfactory: Baxendale v. Bennett, L. R., 3 Q. B. D., 525. See, however, the observations of the Court of C. P. in Ingham v. Primrose, 28 L. J., C. P., 295; 7 C. B., N. S., 82 (Co E. C. L. R.), s. c. Perhaps the obligation created by blank makings, acceptances and indorsements of bills, checks or notes, depends on the principle of estoppel, and not on any peculiarity of negotiable paper. On this ground it is put by Lord Mansfield in Russell v. Langstaffe, Doug., s. 496; and by Lord Chief Justice Tindal in Schultz v. Astley, ubisupra; but see the observations of Williams, J., in Expurte Swan, 7 C. B., 447 (62 E. C. L. R.), and Martin, B., and Channell, B., in Swan v. North British Australian Company, 31 L. J., Exch., 435. On the question whether the principle of estoppel can be applied to a deed improperly filled up, the Court of Common Pleas and of Exchequer were equally divided: Ibia. In the Exchequer Chamber, it was hold that it could not: 32 L. J., Exch., 273.
- \* Hatch v. Searles, 2 Sm & G., 147; 24 L. J., Ch. 22, a. c.; Moody v. Threlheld, 13 Ga., 55; Bank v. Currey, 2 Dana (Ky.), 142.

4 Pillans v. Van Mierop, 3 Burr., 1663; Pierson v. Dunlop, Cowp., 571; Mason v. Hunt, Doug., 284, 287.

5 Milue v. Prest, 4 Camp., 393; Holt., N. P., 181, s. c., evidently an inaccurate report in Holt; see 11 M. & W., 390; Johnson v. Collings, 1 East, 98.

settled that there cannot be an oral acceptance of a non-existing bill, although the bill be discounted by the drawer on the faith of a promise to accept. It has been decided, since 1 & 2 Geo. 4, c. 78, that an acceptance may be written before the bill is drawn, though that statute makes it essential to the acceptance of an inland bill that it should be in writing on such bill; and it would be a variance, though the declaration stated the drawing to have been first and the acceptance afterwards.

1 Johnson v. Collings, 1 East, 98; Bank of Ireland v. Archer, 11 M. & W., 383. 2 Ibid.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>8</sup> Molloy r. Delves, 7 Bing., 428 (20 E. C. L. R.); 5 M. & P., 275; 4 C. & P., 492 (19 E.C.L.R., S.C. And it is probable the same interpretation will be put on the present act 19 & 20 Vict., c. 97, which requires the signature of the acceptor. A promise in writing made before a bill is drawn to accept the bill will not be held to amount to an actual acceptance, until the bill is clearly described and identified from other bills: Ulster Co. Bank v. McFarlan, 3 Den. (N. Y.), 553. A letter written by the drawee of a bill of exchange, before or after the drawing of the bill. promising to accept or protect the bill, may operate as an acceptance, although the holder may not be appraised of such letter, and thereby induced to receive the bill; Read v. Marsh, 5 Mon., Ky., 8. A letter written within a reasonable time before or after the date of a bill, intelligibly describing it, and promising to accept it, is. if shown to one who takes it on the credit of the letter, a virtual acceptance, binding on the promisor: Payson v. Coolidge, 2 Wheat. (U.S.), 66; Goodridge v. Gordon, 15 John. (N. Y.), 6; Schimmelpennick v. Bayard, 1 Pet. (U. S.), 265; Towsley v. Sanrall, 2 Pet. (U.S.), 181; Wilson v. Clements, 3 Mass., 1; Storer v. Logan, 9 Mass., 55; McKim v. Smith, 1 Hall's L. J., 486; Parker v. Grule, 2 Wend. (N. Y.), 545; 5 Wend., 414; Boyce v. Edwards, 4 Pet. (U. S.), 111; Williams v. Winans, 2 Green (N. J.), 339; Russell v. Wiggin, 2 Story (U. S. C. C.), 213; Bayard v. Lathy, 2 McLean (U. S. C. C.), 462; Kennedy v. Geddes, 3 Ala., 581; Ulster Bank v. McFarlan, 5 Hill (N. Y.), 433. An authority given by A. to B. to draw bills on him is virtually an acceptance of any bills drawn in conformity with such authority: Van Reimsdyk v. Kane, 1 Gall. (U. S. C. C.), 630; Banorger, v. Hovey, 5 Mass., 23; Mayhew v. Prince, 11 Mass., 55; Wallace v. Agry, 4 Mas. (U. S. C. C.), 336; Bissell v. Lewis, 4 Mich., 450. Where one gave written authority to another as his agent to adjust certain business, and draw on him for the moneys necessary, it was held to amount to an acceptance by the principal of drafts drawn with the assent of the agent upon him: Gates v. Parker 43 Me., 544. When an implied acceptance, based on authority to draw, previously given, is relied on, a recovery cannot be had against a party as acceptor by virtue of such authority, unless it be proved that the party discounting the bill, before or at the time of so doing, saw or knew of the authority, and discounted on the faith thereof: Lewis v. Cramer, 3 Md., 265. A bill drawn by one upon himself is to be regarded as an accepted bill: Cunningham c. Wardell, 12 Me., 466. No formal acceptance of a bill of exchange drawn by a corporation on itself is necessary, the act of drawing being deemed an acceptance of it: Hasey v. White Pigeon B. S. Co., 1 Doug. (Mich.),193. The act of drawing a bill by one partner, in his own name, on the firm of which he is a member, for the use of the partnership, is in law an acceptance by the drawee in behalf of the firm, and an action may be maintained against the firm as on an accepted bill: Dougal v. Chowles, 5 Day (Conn.), 511. By the Revised Statutes of

\*A bill may be accepted after the period at which it is made payable has elapsed, and the acceptor will then be liable to pay on demand; yet, if the declaration stated the acceptance to be according to its tenor and effect, those words would be but surplusage.¹ It may also be accepted after a previous refusal to accept.²

New York, an acceptance is void unless made in writing. But prior to this provision, a parol agreement to accept a bill to be drawn in future could not be enforced by an indersee who did not take the bill on the faith of such an agreement: Ontario Bank v. Worthington, 12 Wend. (N. Y.), 593; McEvers, v. Mason, 10 John, (N. Y.), 207; Goodrich v. Gordon, 15 John. (N. Y.), 6.

A mere verbal promise to accept a bill of exchange not yet drawn is not such an acceptance as will in law bind the acceptor, even if made to the person in whose favor the bill is drawn: Kennedy v. Geddes, 8 Port. (Ala.), 263. By the English law, a promise to accept a non-existing bill of exchange, even though it be taken by the holder upon the faith of that promise, does not amount to an acceptance of the bill when drawn in favor of the holder; but it has been held otherwise by the Sapreme Court of the United States. Yet if the bill be payable after sight, and not after date, such a promise has never been held, in either country, to be an acceptance of a non-existing bill: Coolidge r. Payson, 2 Wheat. (U.S.), 66; Wildes r. Sarage, 1 Story (U. S. C. C.), 22; Russell v. Wiggin, 2 Story (U. S. C. C.), 213. A parol promise to accept a draft founded on no new consideration is not binding, either as an acceptance or a binding promise to accept: Strohecker v. Cohen, 1 Speers (S, C.), 349. A promise to accept a bill is equivalent to an acceptance, not only as to the drawer, but to every party who takes the bill on the faith of the promisor: Steman v Harrison, 42 Penn. St., 19. A promise to accept without more, covers only bills payable at the payee's or drawer's place of business: Michigan State Bank v. Leavenworth, 28 Vt., 208. A parol promise to pay a bill when it matures is an acceptance: Spaulding v. Andrews, 48 Penn. St., 411. Authority to draw" on us or either of us." "and we hereby jointly and severally hold ourselves accountable for the acceptance and payment of such drafts," binds the signers. jointly and severally, to the payment of acceptances made by either: Michigan State Bank v. Pecks, 28 Vt., 200.

As to when a verbal or written promise to accept is an acceptance of an existing or non-existing bill, see Crowell v. Van Bibber, 18 La. Ann., 637; Steman v. Harrison, 42 Penn. St., 49; Plummer v. Lyman, 49 Me., 229; Burns v. Rowland, 60 Barb. (N. Y.), 368; Spaulding v. Andrews, 48 Penn. St., 411; Nelson v. First Nat. Bank, 48 Ill., 36; Exchange Bank v. Rice, 98 Mass., 288; Cook v. Mittinberger, 23 La. Ann., 377; Harrison v. Smith, 2 Sweeney (N. Y.), 669. The measure of damages for non-performance of an agreement to accept a draft for the drawer's accommodation, which is still in his hands, is the inconvenience and loss thereby occasioned to him, and not the amount of the draft: Ilsley v. Jones, 12 Gray (Mass.), 260.

1 Jackson v. Pigott, 1 Ld. Raym., 374; Muford v. Walcot, 1 Ld. Raym., 574; 1 Salk., 129, s. c.; Stein v. Yglesias, 5 Tyr., 172; 1 C., M. & R., 565; 1 Gale, 98, s. c. Acceptance after time of payment is binding: Williams v. Winans, 2 Green (N. Y.), 139. The fact of a bill's having been protested does not prevent its being afterwards accepted by the drawee: Stockwell v. Bramble, 3 Ind., 428. A drawee who accepts after the bill has been indorsed over is liable to the indorsee: Bank of Louisville v. Ellery, 31 Barb. (N. Y.), 630.

2 Wynne v. Raikes, 5 East, 514; 2 Smith, 89, s. c. If on protest for non-accept-