ment, to give notice of that fact to the antecedent parties. The requisites of notice and the consequences of neglect being much the same in both cases, under the general head of notice of dishonor will be considered notice of non-acceptance and notice of non-payment.

In considering this subject, let us inquire—first, what form of notice is required; secondly, how notice is to be transmitted; thirdly, at what place it is to be given; fourthly, at what time; fifthly, by whom it must be given; sixthly, to whom; seventhly, what are the consequences of neglect; eighthly, how notice may be excused or waived; and lastly, how it may be proved.

First, as to the form of the notice. Notice does not mean mere knowledge, but an actual notification. For a man who can be clearly shown to have known beforehand that the bill would be dishonored is nevertheless entitled to notice.<sup>2</sup>

W., 506, s. c. See Goodman v. Harvey, 4 Ad. & El., 870 (31 E. C. L. R.); 6 N. & M., 372. Where a bill was reindorsed to a prior indorser, and in the interval had been dishonored by a refusal to accept, of which refusal the drawer had had no notice, it was held that, the plaintiff declaring as immediate indorsee of the drawer, the defendant might plead those facts without averring that the plaintiff gave no value, or was not again indorsee before the bill became due, or had knowledge of the facts: Bartlett v. Benson, 15 L. J., Exch., 23; 14 M. & W., 733; 3 D. & L., 274, s. c.; and if notice of non-acceptance be given, the right to recover of the prior parties the full amount of the bill immediately, however distant its maturity, is complete: Whitehead v. Walker, 9 M. & W., 506.

The drawer and indorsers are liable to an action by the holder immediately after the bill is refused acceptance, and before it is payable, on giving due notice of non-acceptance: Wallace v. Agry, 4 Mas. (U. S.), 336; Watson v. Loring, 3 Mass., 557; Lexox v. Cook, 8 Mass., 460; Sterry v. Robinson, 1 Day (Conn.), 11; Taan v. Le Gaux, 1 Yeates (Penn.), 204; Weldon v. Buck, 4 John. (N. Y.), 144; Winthrop v. Pepoon, 1 Bay (U. S.), 468; Mason v. Franklin, 3 John. (N. Y.), 202; Corser v. Craig, 1 Wash. (U. S. C. C.), 424; Miller v. Hackley, 5 John. (N. Y.), 375; Evans v. Gee, 11 Pet. (U. S.), 80; Evans v. Bridges, 4 Port. (Ala.), 348; Wild v. Passamaquoddy Bank, 3 Mas. (U. S.), 505. It is not indispensable that a bill should be presented for acceptance until it becomes due; but if presented and not accepted, notice of the non-acceptance must be given to the drawer: Smith v. Roach, 7 B. Mon. (Ky.), 17. The holder of a bill of exchange may commence a suit immediately upon the protest for non-acceptance: Roosevault v. Woodhull, Authon. (N. Y., 38. Absence of the drawee from home, when called on for acceptance, is not a refusal to accept: Bank of Washington v. Triplett, 1 Pet. (U. S.), 35.

Where the holder of an indersed bill of exchange, which is not accepted by the drawee, merely informs the drawee that he has the bill but does not actually present it to him for acceptance, and the drawee thereupon tells him that the bill will not be accepted nor paid, the inderser is not thereby discharged, though no notice is given to him of the drawee's declarations: Fall River Bank v. Willard, 5 Met. (Mass.), 216.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup> See Burgh v. Legge, 5 M. & W., 418; Caunt v. Thompson, 18 L. J., C. P., 127; 7 C. B., 400 (62 E. C. L. R.), s. c.

No particular form of notice is required. It may be either written or oral. All that is necessary is to apprise the party liable of the dishonor 2 of the bill in question, and to intimate that he is expected to pay it. And an announcement of the dishonor will (at least if it come from the holder) amount to a sufficient intimation to the indorser that he is held liable. But where a mere

1 The construction of a parol notice is for the jury, of a written notice for the court, and therefore, perhaps, a parol notice may be good where the same words, it in writing, might be held insufficient. See Metcalfe & Richardson, 11 C. B., 1011 (73 E. C. L. R.); and Phillips v. Gould, S C. & P., 355 (34 E. C. L. R). Notice of non-payment need not be in writing; a verbal notice is sufficient: Cuyler r. Stevens, 4 Wend. (N. Y.) 566; Glassgow r. Pratte, 8 Mo., 336; Thompson e. Williams, 14 California, 160. The payce of a protested bill carried it with the notarial certificate attached to the drawer's place of business, placed it there before him, and notified him of its dishonor. Held sufficient, as no precise words and no particular form were necessary in giving notice, nor was it required to be in writing: Butt r. Hoge, 2 Hilt. (N. Y. C. P.), 811. Demand and refusal by the maker or acceptor are both facts which in all cases must in some form or other be communicated to the indorser in the notice of protest: Boehme v. Carr, 3 Md., 202. Any notice describing the bill with sufficient certainty, so as to enable the party to identify it, and communicating its dishonor, is sufficient: Butt & Hoge, 2 Hilt. (N. Y. C. P.), 81; Gill r. Palmer, 29 Conn., 54; Burnham v. Trowbridge, 9 Mich., 209; Davenport v. Gilbert, 4 Bos. (N. Y.), 572; Thompson v. Williams, 14 Cal., 160; Home Ins. Co. r. Green, 19 N. Y., 518; Cook v. Litchfield, 2 Bos. (N. Y.), 137; Renick r. Robbins, 28 Mo., 389; Henry v. State Bank, 3 Ind., 216; Newberry v. Trowbridge, 4 Mich., 391; Cook v. Litchfield, 9 N. Y., 279; Hodges v. Shuler, 24 Barb. (N. Y.), 68; Youngs v. Lee, 18 Id., 187; Manchester Bank v. White, 34 N. H., 456; Reid r. Reid, 11 Tex., 585; Youngs v. Lee, 12 N. Y., 551; Stephenson v. Dickson, 22 Penn. St., 148: Manning v. Hayes, 6 Md., 5; Williams v. Smith, 48 Me., 135; Gates r. Butcher, 60 N. Y., 518; Boyd's Admrs. r. Savings Bank, 15 Gratt. (Va.), 501; Gilbert r. Dumis, 3 Met. (Mass.) 495; Bank r. Ryerson, 23 Iowa, 508. The question (where there is no dispute as to the facts) whether the holder has exercised due diligence in secking the maker's place of business or residence, is for the court: Wheeler v. Field, 6 Met. (Mass.), 290.

I.c. (in the case of dishonor by non-payment), of presentment and non-payment: East v. Smith, 16 L. J., Q. B., 292; 4 Dowl. & L., 744, s. c.

It was held in Furzee v. Sharwood, 2 G. &. D., 116; 2 Q. B. 416 (42 E. C. L. R.), s. c., that a notice of the dishonor of a bill of exchange sent by the holder need not contain an announcement that the holder looks to the party to whom it is addressed for payment, but that if the notice do not come immediately from the holder, such an intimation may perhaps be necessary. See also East v. Smith, 16 L. J., Q. B., 292; 4 Dowl. & L., 744. The formal protest itself, for which the notice is substituted, contains no such announcement. And see Miers v. Brown, 11 M. & W., 372, where Mr. Baron Alderson says, "knowledge of dishonor obtained by communication from the holder of the bill amounts to notice:" and the observations of Cresswell, J., in Caunt v. Thompson, 18 L. J., C. P., 128; 7 C. B., 400 (62 E. C. L. R.), s. c. In King v. Bickley, 2 Q. B., 419 (42 E. C. L. R.), it was held not necessary to state in a notice of dishonor that the holder looks to the other party for payment, and that the mere sending of notice of dishonor is itself a sufficient inti-

[\*277] demand of \*payment was made, the court observed, "There is no precise form of words necessary to be used in giving notice of the dishonor of a bill of exchange, but the language used must be such as to convey notice to the party what the bill is. and that payment of it has been refused by the acceptor. Here the letter in question did not convey to the defendant any such notice: it does not even say that the bill was ever accepted. We, therefore. think the notice was insufficient." Where the attorney for the indorsee wrote a letter to the indorser to the following effect, "A bill for 6831., drawn by K. on J. & Co., and bearing your indorsement, has been put into our hands by A., with directions to take legal measures for the recovery thereof unless immediately paid to us," it was held that this letter was not a sufficient notice of dishonor. "The notice of dishonor," says Tindal, C. J., delivering the judgment of the Court of Exchequer Chamber, "which is commonly substituted in this country in the place of a formal protest (such formal protest being essential in other countries to enable the plaintiff to recover), most certainly does not require all the precision and formality which accompanied the regular protest, for which it has been substituted. But it should at least inform the party to whom it is addressed, either in express terms or by neces-[\*278] sary implication, that \*the bill has been dishonored, and that the holder looks to him for payment of the amount.

mation for that purpose. The following was the form of notice: "Sir, I hereby give you notice that a bill for 50l., at three mouths after date, drawn by J. L. upon and accepted by J. E. of Blenheim street, Chelsea, and indorsed by you, lies at No. 6 Ely Place, dishonored. Yours, etc., (signed) WM. KING." See Chard v. Fox, 14 Q. B., 200 (68 E. C. L. R.).

<sup>1</sup> Hartley v. Case, 4 B. & C., 339 (10 E. C. L. R.); 6 Dowl. & R., 505.

Perhaps "reasonable intendment" would be a more correct expression than "necessary implication;" at all events the expression "necessary implication" is not to be so construed as to exclude the possibility of any other inference: see the observations of Mr. Baron Parke on this expression in Hedger v. Stevenson, 2 M. & W., 799; 5 Dowl.,771, s. c.; Lewis v. Gompertz, 6 M. & W., 402.

Notice of the dishonor of a bill need not state that the holder looks to the party notified for payment; this is implied by the act of giving notice: Cowles v. Harts, 3 Conn., 517; Shrieve v. Duckham, 1 Litt. (Ky.), 194; Bank of Cape Fear v. Seawell, 2 Hawks (N. C.), 560; Warren v. Gilman, 17 Me., 360. Nor need it state who the holder is: Bradley v. Davis, 26 Me., 45; Townsend v. Lorain Bank, 2 Ohio, 345. Notice that a bill has been protested for non-payment is a sufficient notice of a demand and refusal: Spies v. Newberry, 2 Doug. (Mich.), 425; Smith v. Little, 10 N. H., 526; Pinkham v. Macy, 9 Metc., 174. See Platt v. Drake, 1 Doug. (Mich.), 296; Nailor v. Bowie, 3 Md., 251; Farmers' Bank of Md. v. Bowie, 4 Id., 290; Sasscer v. The Farmers' Bank, 4 Id., 409; Townsend v. Lorain Bank, 2 Ohio, 345; Burgess

Looking at this notice, we think no such intimation is conveyed in terms or is necessarily to be inferred from its contents." The court further observed that it was consistent with the notice that the bill had never been presented, but that the plaintiff intended to rely on an excuse for non-presentment, that the notice did not state that the bill was due, and might not have been intended as a notice of dishonor, but might have presupposed it.

v. Vreeland, 24 N. J. L., 71; Brewster v. Arnold, 1 Wis., 264. That knowledge of non-payment is not notice is very clear, for the notice must come from the holder himself, or some one who is a party; for the notice must assert that the holder intends to stand on his legal rights and to resort to the indorser for payment: The Juniata Bank v. Hale, 16 S. & R. (Penn.), 157.

A mistake in the notice which cannot mislead the party will not invalidate it: Cabot Bank v. Warner, 10 Allen (Mass.), 522; Walmsley v. Acton, 41 Barb. (N. Y.), 312; Bank v. Woods, 28 N. Y., 545; Wolf v. Lauman, 34 Mo., 575; Williams v. Smith, 45 Me., 135; Union Bank v. Humphreys, Id., 172; Lennig v. Tobey, 4 Clark (Iowa), 275; Wood v. Watson, 53 Me., 300; McCune v. Belt, 38 Mo., 281; Artisans' Bank v. Backus, 36 N. Y., 100; Myers v. Bank of Tenn., 3 Head (Tenn.), 330. A notice dated on the day following the third day of grace, and stating that the note was this day protested, is invalid: Walmsley v. Acton, 44 Barb. (N. Y.), 312. Notice must state substantially the dishonor of the note: Fish v. Morse, 16 N. H., 271. Where a mistake in the address of a notice was attributable to the peculiarity of the indorser's signature, it was held good: Manufacturers' Bank v. Hazard, 30 N. Y., 226. Notice may be verbal: Merritt v. Woodbury, 14 Iowa, 399. An unsigned notice is invalid: Walmsley v. Acton, 44 Barb. (N. Y.), 312. The person giving notice should be a party to the bill, or some one acting under the authority of a party, and liberal presumptions will be indulged in favor of such authority when the contrary is not made to appear: Paynev. Patrick, 21 Tex., 680. The cashier of a bank, which is the holder of a hill, may give notice of its non-payment: Bank of Mo. r. Vaughan, 36 Mo., 90. A printed notice, including signature of notary, is sufficient; Bank v. Woods, 28 N. Y., 541; Spalding v. Krutz, 1 Dill. (U.S. C.C.), 414. Other cases as to notice: Dicken v. Hall, 87 Penn. St., 379; John v. Solma Bank, 57 Ala., 96; Van Brunt v. Vaughn, 47 Iowa, 145; Cromar v. Platt, 37 Mich., 132; Bank v. Wood, 51 Vt., 471; Slaughter v. Farland, 31 Gratt. (Va.), 134; John v. Bank, 62 Ala., 520; Cox v. Bank, 704; Smith v. Miller, 52 N. Y., 545.

1 Solarte v. Palmer, 7 Bing., 530 (20 E. C. L. R.); 5 Moo. & P., 475; 1 C. & J., 417; 1 Tyr., 371, s. c.; affirmed in the House of Lords, 1834, 1 Bing, N. C., 191 (27 E. C. L. R.), where Parke, J., declared the unanimous opinion of the judges present that the letter of the plaintiff's attorney did not amount to notice of the dishonor of the bill, as such a notice ought, in express terms or by necessary implication, to convey full information that the bill had been dishonored. And Lord Brougham, C., on the ground that after Hartley v. Case, the judgment of the Exchequer Chamber, and the 5th edition of Bayley on Bills, the case was too clear for appeal, said that the judgment of the court below must be affirmed, with costs. The propriety of this decision and of dismissing the appeal with costs, as a case too clear for argument, was the subject of considerable discussion among the profession at the time. The decisions in Hartley v. Case and Solarte v. Palmer have been followed by no small inconvenience to the public, who are now hardly safe in giving notices of dishonor without professional aid.

[\*279] \*It is to be observed, however, that the expressions of the judges in Solarte v. Palmer are not the language of the

The following notices have accordingly been since held insufficient:

"The note for 2001., drawn by H. H., dated 18th July last, payable three months after date, and indorsed by you, became due yesterday, and is returned to me unpaid. I therefore request you will let me have the amount forthwith." "These facts," says Tindall, C. J., "are compatible with an entire omission to present the note to the maker": Boulton v. Welsh, 3 Bing., N. C., 688 (32 E. C. L. R.); 4 Scott, 425, s. c.

"Sir, a bill for 30L, dated the 18th August, 1837, at three months, drawn and indorsed by R. Everett upon and accepted by W. Tuck, and indorsed by you, lies at my office due and unpaid. Iam, etc., S. J. SYDNEY": Phillips v. Gould, 8 C. & P., 355 (34 E. C. L. R.).

"Messrs. Strange & Co., inform Mr. James Price that Mr. John Betterton's acceptance for 87l. 5s. is not paid. As indorser, Mr. Price is called upon to pay the money, which will be expected immediately. Swindon, Dec., 1836"; Strange v. Price, 10 Ad. & El., 125 (37 E. C. L. R.); 2 Per. & Dav., 278, s. c.

"Sir, this is to inform you that the bill I took of you, 11l. 2s. 6d., is not took up, and 4s. 6d. expenses; and the money I must pay immediately. My son will be in London on Friday morning. WM. MESSENGER": Messenger v. Southey, 1 Man. & Gr., 76 (39 E. C. L. R.); 1 Scott, N. R., 180, s. c.

The following notices of non-payment of six bills of exchange were held insufficient:

- 1. Sir, a bill for 291. 17s. 3d., drawn by Ward on Hunt, due yesterday, is unpaid, and I am sorry to say the person at whose house it is made payable don't speak very favorably of the acceptor's punctuality. I should like to see you upon it to-day."
- 2. "Mr. Maine,—Sir, This is to give you notice that a bill drawn by you and accepted by Josias Bateman for 47l. 16s. 9d., due July 19, 1835, is unpaid, and lies due at Mr. J. Furze's, 65 Fleet street."
- 3. "Sir, Mr. Howard's acceptance for 21l. 4s. 4d., due on Saturday, is unpaid. He has promised to pay it in a week or ten days. I shall be glad to see you upon it as early as possible."
- 4. "Sir, This is to give you notice that a bill for 176!. 15s. 6d., drawn by Samuel Maine, accepted by G. Clisby, dated May 7, 1835, at four months, lies due and unpaid at my house."
- 5. "P. Johnson, Esq.,—Sir, This is to give you notice that a bill, 201. 17s. 7d., drawn by Samuel Maine, accepted by Richard Jones, dated May 21, 1835, at four months, lies due and unpaid at my house."
- 6. "P. Johnson, Esq.,—Sir. This is to give you notice that a bill for 1481, 10s., drawn by Samuel Maine, and accepted by G. Parker, dated May 22, 1835, lies due and unpaid at my house:" Furze v. Sharwood and Others, 11 L. J., Q. B., 19; 2 Q. B., 343 (42 E. C. L. R.), s. c.

But the following have been held to be sufficient notices of dishonor:

"Sir, A bill drawn by you upon and accepted by Mr. Joshua Watson for 311. 3s., due yesterday, is dishonored and unpaid; and I am desired to give you notice thereof to request that the same may be immediately paid. I am, etc., H. D. Rushbury:" Woodthorpe v. Lawes, 2 M. & W., 109.

"Sir, The bill for £——, drawn by you, is this day returned with charges, to which your immediate attention is requested." (Signed by the indersee); Grugeou v. Smith, 6 Ad. & Ell., 499 (33 E. C. L. R.); 2 Nev. & P., 303, s. c.

\*House of Lords, and it is to be borne in mind that so far as those expressions go beyond what was necessary to decide the case then under consideration, they are extra-judicial.

"Sir, I am desired by Mr. Hedger to give you notice that a promissory note for 991, 182, payable to your order two months after the date thereof, became due yesterday, and has been returned unpaid, and I have to request you will please remit the amount thereof with 1s. 6d. noting, free of postage, by return of post. I am, etc., JONES SPYER:" Hedger v. Stevenson, 2 M. & W., 799; 5 Dowl., 771, s. c.

"Your bill is unpaid;" "noting 5s:" Armstrong v. Christiani, 5 C. B., 687 (57 E. C. L. R.); 17 L. J., C. P., 121.

"Your note has been returned dishonored." is sufficient, without the words "your note has been presented for payment:" Edmonds v. Cates, 2 Jurist, 183.

"Messrs. Houlditch are surprised that Mr. Cauty has not taken up Chaplin's bill according to his promise; are also surprised to hear that Mrs. Gib's bill was returned to the holder unpaid."

This notice was followed by a visit from the indorser to the holder on the same day, in which he promised to write to the other parties, by whom, or by himself, the bill should be paid: Houlditch v. Cauty, 4 Bing. N. C., 441 (33 E. C. L. R.); 2 Scott, 209, s. c.

"Mr. Gompertz,—Sir, The bill of exchange for 2501., drawn by S. Rendall, and accepted by Charles Stretton, and bearing your indorsement has been presented for payment to the acceptor thereof, and returned dishonored, and now lies overdue and unpaid with me, as above, of which I hereby give you notice. I am, etc., C. Lewis:" Lewis v. Gompertz, 6 M. & W., 400.

"I beg to inform you that Mr. D.'s acceptance for 2001., drawn and indorsed by you, due 31st July, has been presented for payment and returned, and now remains unpaid:" Cook r. French, 10 Ad. & El., 131 (37 E. C. L. R.); 3 Per. & D., 596, s. c.

"Dear Sir, To my surprise I have received an intimation from the Birmingham and Midland Counties Bank that your draft on A. B. is dishonored, and I have requested them to proceed on the same:" Shelton v. Braithwaite, 7 M. & W., 436.

"Sir, I am instructed by Mr. Molineaux to give you notice that a bill (describing it) has been dishonored," etc.: Stocken v. Collin, 9 C. & P., 653 (38 E. C. L. R.); 7 M. & W., 515, s. c.

A party sent by the holder of a dishonored bill of exchange called at the drawer's house the day after it became due, and there saw his wife, and told her that he had brought back the bill that had been dishonored. She said that she knew nothing about it, but would tell her husband of it when he came home. The party then went away, not leaving any written notice; held sufficient notice of dishonor: Housego v. Cowne, 2 M. & W., 348.

"James Court's acceptance, due this day, is unpaid, and I request your immediate attention to it," was held sufficient: Bailey v. Porter, 14 M. & W., 44. See the observations on this case in Allen v. Edmundson, 17 L. J., Exch., 293; 2 Exch., 719, s. c.; and see Paul v. Joel, 3 H. & N., 455; 28 L. J., Exch., 143; 4 H. & N., 355, affirmed in error.

"Your draft upon C. for 50l., due 3d March, is returned to us unpaid, and if not taken up this day, proceedings will be taken against you for the recovery thereof," was held sufficient: Robson v. Curlewis, 2 Q. B., 421 (42 E. C. L. R.).

Where the holder, when the bill became due, said to the executor of the acceptor, who was also inderser, "I have brought a bill from the plaintiffs, you know what it is," and the defendant said, "I am executor of the drawce, you must persuade the

\*The decision in Solarte v. Palmer is unquestionably binding to this extent, that a notice in those very terms and under those very circumstances is bad and ought to be withdrawn from the jury. But in strictness this decision is binding no further.

Notwithstanding, therefore, the case of Solarte v. Palmer, the true rule in nearly all cases seems now to be this: that where a notice of dishonor conveys expressly or impliedly an intimation intelligible to ordinary understandings of dishonor and of demand of payment, the notice is sufficient.

The notice must not so misdescribe the instrument that the defendant may be led to confound it with some other. Thus, a notice in the following terms: "I give you notice that a bill for, etc., at, etc., drawn by you upon, etc., lies at, etc., dishonored," has been held insufficient to sustain an action against the indorser, who is not also the drawer.\(^1\) But this is only a nisi prius decision and doubtful. It has since been held that if there be more than one bill to which the notice may apply, it lies on the defendant to prove that fact.\(^2\) And if a note be improperly called a bill it is no objection,\(^3\) nor if a bill be improperly called a note,\(^4\) nor if the characters of drawers and acceptors of a bill be transposed.\(^5\)

plaintiff to let the bill stand over a few days, because the acceptor has been dead only a few days. I shall see the bill paid," notice of dishonor was held to be proved: Caunt v. Thompson, 18 L. J., C. P., 125; 7 C. B., 490 (62 E. C. L. R.), s. c.

"We beg to aquaint you with the non-payment of William Miles' acceptance to James Wright's draft of 29th December last, at four months, 50l., amounting, with expenses, to 50l. 5s. 1d., which remit us in course of post without fail, to pay to Messrs. Everards & Co., Lynn," was held sufficient: Everard v. Watson, 1 E. & B., 801 (72 E. C. L. R.). In this case Lord Campbell expressed his regret at the decision of Solarte v. Palmer; and see Paul v. Joel, antc.

It is conceived that the following is the full form of notice to be given by the holder to an indorser. It may be easily altered and adapted to circumstances.

"No. 1 Fleet street, London, 26th Sept., 1812—Sir, I hereby give you notice that the bill of exchange, dated 22d ult., drawn by A. B., of—, on C. D., of—, for 100l., payable one month after date to A. B. or his order, and indorsed by you, has been duly presented for payment, but was dishonored, and is unpaid. I request you to pay me the amount thereof. I am sir, your obedient servant, G. H. To Mr. E. F., of—— (Merchant)."

The construction of all written instruments is for the court, but the meaning of peculiar expressions, which in particular places or trades have a known meaning, is for the jury: Hutchison v. Bowker, 5 M. & W., 542.

- Beauchamp v. Cash, 1 D. & R., N. P. C., 3. Though every inderser is in the nature of a new drawer: ante, p., 153. But see Mellersh v. Rippen, 7 Exch., 578.

  Shelton v. Braithwaite, 7 M. & W., 436.
- <sup>3</sup> Messenger v. Southey, 1 Man. & Gr., 76 (34 E. C. L. R.); 1 Scott, N. R. 180, s. c.
  - Stockman r. Parr, 11 M. & W., 809.
     Mellersh v. Rippen, 7 Exch., 578.
     416

In short, that a misdescription which does not mislead is immaterial, is now the rule of law, as well as of convenience and justice.

It has been held that notice of dishonor need not state on whose behalf payment is applied for, nor where the bill is lying, and a misdescription of the place where the bill is lying is immaterial, unless, perhaps, a tender were made there.

\*If the notice, by mistake, misdescribe the party giving [\*282] it, by representing that it is given by or on behalf of A., when in reality it is given by or on behalf of B., it is, nevertheless, good. But the party who receives the notice is to be placed in the same situation as if the notice had really been given by A., and is at liberties to object any inability in A. to give notice; as, for example, that A. had been discharged by laches, or had no right of action on the bill.<sup>4</sup>

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> Bromage v. Vaughan, 9 Q. B., 608 (58 E. C. L. R.); Mellersh v. Rippen, supra; Dennistoun v. Stewart, 17 Howard, American Rep., 606; Harphan v. Child, 1 F. & F., 652. If in a notice of non-payment, dated on the day the bill is due, it is stated by mistake that it was protested the evening before, and that the holders look to the indorser for payment, it is a question for the jury whether the indorser was misled: Ontario Bank r. Petrie, 3 Wend. (N. Y.), 456; Ross v. Planters' Bank, 5 Humph. (Tenn.), 335; Maorman r. Bank of Ala., 3 Port. (Ala.), 353; Rowan r. Odenheimer, 5 S. & M. (Miss.), 44; Mills v. U. S. Bank, 11 Wheat. (U. S.), 43; Bank of Rochester v. Gould, 9 Wend. (N. Y.), 279; M'Knight v. Lewis, 5 Barb. (N. Y.), 681. Any form of notice to an indorser is sufficient to fix his liability, if the instrument in question was intended to be described in such notice, and the party was not misled or deceived thereby as to the instrument intended: Tobey v. Lennig, 14 Penn. St., 483; Kilgore r. Bulkley, 14 Conn., 362; Spann r. Baltzeli, 1 Branch, (Fla.) 301; Crocker r. Getchell, 22 Me., 392; Cawuga County Bank r. Warden, 1 N. Y., 413; Dennistoun r. Stewart, 17 How. (U.S.), 606; Young v. Lee, 18 Id., 187. Where there is no dispute as to the facts, the sufficiency of the notice is a question of law for the court: Remer v. Downer, 21 Wend. (N. Y.), 10; 23 Wend. (N. Y.), 620; 25 Wend. (N. Y.), 277; Thompson v. The State, 3 Fill (S. C.), 77; Fleming v. Fulton, 6 How. (Miss.), 473; Johnson v. M'Grim, 4 Dev. (N. C.), 277; Sinclair v. Lynch, 1 Speers (S. C.), 244; Platt v. Drake. 1 Dougl. (Mich.), 296; Dole v. Gold, 5 Barb. (N. Y.), 490; Nevins v. Bank, 10 Mich., 547; Ricketts v. Pendleton, 14 Md., 320. The notice of non-payment of a note to charge an indorser must show that the presentment was made at the proper time; therefore, where the notice stated that the note had been "this day presented for payment," and payment refused, and the notice was without date, it was held that it was defective: Wynn v. Alden, 4 Den. (N. Y.], 163.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup> Woodthorpe v. Lawes, 2 M. & W., 109; Housego v. Cowne, 2 M. & W., 348; Harrison v. Ruscoc, 15 L. S., Exch., 110; 15 M. & W., 231; s. c.; Maxwell v. Brain, Exch., 1866.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>3</sup> Rowlands r. Sprinjett, 14 L. J., Exch., 227; 14 M. & W., 7, s. c.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>4</sup> Harrison v. Ruscoe, 15 L. J., Exch., 110; 15 M. & W., 231, s. c.

It is not necessary that a copy of the protest should accompany notice of the dishonor of a foreign bill.' But information of the protest should be sent,2 if the party to whom notice is transmitted reside abroad.

Secondly, as to the mode of transmitting the notice.

Putting a lette into the post is the most common and the safest mode of giving notice. It is not necessary to prove that the letter was received, and any miscarriage will not prejudice the party giving notice. It has been ruled that, in London, delivery of a

- 1 Goodman v. Harvey, 4 Ad. & El., 870 (31 E. C. L. R.), 6 N. & M., 372, s. c.
- Rogers v. Stephens. 2 T. R., 713; Gale v. Walsh, 5 T. R., 239; Brough v. Parkins,
  Ld. Raym., 993; Cromwell v. Hynson, 2 Esp., 511; Robins v. Gibson, 3 Camp., 334;
  M. & Sel., 188, 8. c.; B. N. P., 271.
  - <sup>3</sup> See the chapter on Protest.
- 4 Saunderson v. Judge, 2 H. Bl., 509; Kufh v. Weston, 3 Esp., 54; Parker v. Gordon, 7 East, 385; 3 Smith, 358, s. c.; Langdon r. Hulls, 5 Esp., 157; Dobree r. Eastwood, 3 C. & P., 250 (14 E. C. L. R.); Stocken r. Collin, 7 M. & W., 515; 9 C. & P., 653 (38 E. C. L. R.), s. c.; Woodcock v. Houldsworth, 16 L. J., Exch., 49; 16 M. & W., 126, s. c.; Mackay v. Judkins, 1 F. & F., 208. In order to charge an indorser where it is proper to send notice of protest by mail, which was not received in due course, the onus is upon the plaintiff to show that the notice was properly mailed: Friend r. Wilkinson, 9 Gratt. (Va.), 31. If it appears from the testimony of several witnesses that in the regular routine of the holder's business notice must have been mailed on the proper day, if at all, and it appear that it was received, it will be presumed to have been mailed at the proper time: Comm. Bank v. Strong, 28 Vt., 316. A post-mark is prima facic evidence that a notice was mailed on that day: Early c. Preston, 1 Patton & Heath (Va.), 228; Crawford v. Branch Bank, 1 Ala., 295. Proof of the fact that notice was given is prima facie evidence that it was in proper form: Burgess r. Vreeland, 24 N. J. L., 71. Parol evidence of notice may be given though the notice was in writing, and the defendant not called on to produce it: Scott r. Betts, Hill & Den. (N. Y.), 363; Burgess v. Vreeland, 24 N. J. L.; Paten v. Lent, 4 Duer (N. Y.), 231. As to evidence of notice, see Falconer v. Rogers, Hill & Den. (N. Y.), 127; Worley v. Waldran, 3 Sneed (Tenn.), 548; Mass. Bank v. Oliver, 10 Cush. (Mass.), 557; Cabot Bank v. Russell, 4 Gray (Mass.), 167; Beal v. Parrish, 24 Barb. (N. Y.), 243. Notice cannot be proved by the affidavit of a person deceased, when it did not appear that the act was done in the regular course of his business: Bradbury v. Bridges, 38 Me., 346:

As to notice of dishonor by post, see First Nat. Bank v. Owen, 23 Iowa, 185; Citizens' Bank v. Pugh, 19 La. Ann., 43; Shaw v. Neil, Id., 156; Gallagher v. Tyson, 19 La. Ann., 35; Cabot Bank v. Warner, 10 Allen (Mass.), 522; Lime Rock Bank v. Hewett, 52 Me., 51; Philipe v. Harberlee, 45 Ala., 597; Miller v. Whitfield, 16 La. Ann., 10; Woods v. Neeld, 44 Penn St., 86; True v. Collins, 3 Allen (Mass.), 438; Knott v. Venable, 42 Ala., 186; Spalding v. Krutz, 1 Dill. (U. S. C. C.), 414; Shebourne Falls National Bank v. Townsley, 102 Mass., 177; Williams v. Brailsford, 25 Md., 126; Young v. Durgin, 15 Gray (Mass.), 264; Lapeyre v. Robertson, 20 La. An., 399; McNutt v. Jones, 52 Ga., 473. Where indorser resides in a different place from that where demand is made, notice of dishonor may be served by mail, though he and the holder reside in the same place: Wynen v. Schappert, 6 Daly (N. Y. C.

letter to a bellman in the street is not sufficient, and that it should be posted either at the general post-office or at an authorized receiving house.<sup>1</sup>

It is not sufficient that the letter be directed generally to a person at a large town; as, for example, to "Mr. Haynes, Bristol," without specifying in what part of it he resides, unless where the person to whom the letter is sent is the drawer of the bill, and has dated it in an equally general manner. But if he has done so, then the sending of a \*letter, with an address as general to the drawer's description, as "T. M. Barron, Esq., London," will at least be evidence from which the jury may infer due notice. If the notice to the drawer arrive too late, through misdirection, it is for the jury to say whether the holder used due diligence to discover the drawer's address. If the notice miscarry from the indistinctness of the drawer's handwriting on the bill, he will not be discharged.

Where a witness said that the letter containing notice of dishonor

- P.), 559. Where in a large city there is a regular penny post, it seems notice by the post-office, duly mailed in time, is sufficient to charge the indorser residing in the city: Shoemaker v. Mechanics' Bank, 59 Penn St., 79. Where notice of the dishonor of a note is sent through the mail directed to the indorser at the office where the note was dated and indorsed, it is sufficient when the only evidence about his residence is that he testified that he lived in the township to which the notice was directed but said nothing concerning his post-office address: Davis v. Eppler, 38 Kan., 629. In a small town a direction to the post-office, is sufficient and although another person of the same name may have received it, it is sufficient notice to the party intended: Morse v. Chamberlain, 144 Mass., 406.
- <sup>1</sup> Hawkins v. Rutt, Peake's N. P. C., 186; but see Pack v. Alexander, 3 M. & Sco., 789, and Skilbeck v. Garbett, 14 L. J., Q. B., 339; 7 Q. B., 846 (53 E. C. L. R.), s. c. "A bellman," says Lord Denman, "is an ambulatory post-office.
  - <sup>2</sup> Walter v. Haynes, R. & M., 149.
- <sup>3</sup> Mann v. Moore, 1 R. & M., 249; Clarke v. Sharpe, 3 M. & W., 166; 1 Hor. & H., 35, s. c.; Siggers v. Browne, 1 Moo. & Rob., 520; Burmester v. Barron, 17 Q. B., 828 (79 E. C. L. R.).
- Id. Where the indorser of a promissory note resides in a town in which there are two post-offices, a notice of the dishonor of the note, addressed to him at the town generally, is sufficient prima facie: though liable to be rebutted by proof that he was accustomed to receive his letters at one of the offices only, and that the holder of the note might have ascertained that fact by reasonable inquiry: Morton v. Westcott, 8 Cush. (Mass.), 435. Where an indorser resides in a village where there was a post-office, at which he received letters, and had an office in a neighboring village where he received most of his letters, it was held that notice of non-payment addressed to him at the latter village was sufficient: Montgomery Bank v. Marsh, 7 N. Y., 481.
  - <sup>5</sup> Ibid.; see Esdaile v. Sowerby, 11 East, 114.
  - 6 Hewitt r. Thompson, 1 Moo. & Bob., 543.

was put on a table to be carried to the post-office, and that by the course of business all letters deposited on this table were carried to the post-office by a porter, Lord Ellenborough said, "You must go further; some evidence must be given that the letter was taken from the table in the counting-house and put into the post-office. Had you called the porter and he had said that although he had no recollection of the letter in question, he invariably carried to the post-office all the letters found upon the table, this might have done, but I cannot hold this general evidence of the course of business in the plaintiff's counting-house to be sufficient." The postmarks in town or country, proved to be such, are evidence that the letters on which they are were in the office to which those marks belong at the time of the dates of such marks. But they are not conclusive evidence.

A duplicate original, or an examined copy, or orai evidence of a written notice of dishonor, is admissible without notice to produce the original.<sup>5</sup>

Though there be a general post, the holder may send \*notice by a special messenger; but if the notice be not communicated by the special messenger till after the day when it would have been conveyed by the post, it is insufficient. Where the communication by the post is infrequent, as where the party to whom notice is to be sent lives out of the usual course of the post, so that a letter may, possibly, not reach him for a fortnight, he may be charged a reasonable sum by the holder for the expense of a special messenger.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> So held in Skilbeck v. Garbett, 14 L. J., Q. B., 388; 7 Q. B., 864 (53 E. C. L. R.), s. c.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup> Hetherington v. Kemp, 4 Camp., 194: Hawkes v. Salter, 4 Bing., 715 (13 E. C. L. R.); 1 Moo. & P., 750, s. p.; and see Hagedorn v. Reid, 3 Camp., 379; 1 M. & S., 567, s. c.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>3</sup> Kent v. Lowen, 1 Camp., 177; Fletcher v. Braddyl, 3 Stark, 64 (3 E. C. L. R.); Rex v. Plumer, R. & R. C. C., 254; Rex v. Watson, 1 Camp., 215; Langdon v. Hulls. 5 Esp., 156; Rex v. Johnson, 7 East, 65.

<sup>4</sup> Stocken v. Collin, 7 M. & W., 515; 9 C. & P., 653 s. c.

<sup>5</sup> Ackland v. Pierce, 2 Camp., 601; Roberts v. Bradshaw, 1 Stark., 28 (2 E. C. L. R.); Kine v. Beaumont, 3 B. &. B., 288 (7 E. C. L. R.); 7 Moore, 112, s. c.; secus as to a notice of the dishonor of a bill not being the bill sued on: Lanauze v. Palmer, 1 Moo. & Mal., 31.

6 Dobree v. Eastwood, 3 C. & P., 250 (14 E. C. L. R.).

Darbyshire v. Parker, 6 East, 3; 2 Smith, 195, s. c. It has been held that it may arrive later during business hours in the same day without discharging the inderser: Bancroft v. Hall, Holt's N. P. C., 476.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>8</sup> Pearson v. Crallan, 6 Smith, 404.

Personal service of a written notice is not necessary.1

In the case of a foreign bill, it is sufficient to send it by the first regular ship bound for the place to which it is to be sent; and it is no objection that if sent by a chance ship, bound elsewhere, it would have arrived sooner. "It is sufficient for a party in India," says Eyre, C. J., "to send notice by the first regular ship going to England, and he is not bound to accept the uncertain conveyance of a foreign ship. It was enough to do so by the first ship, whether English or foreign, that was going to England in the regular course of conveyance."

We have already seen in what cases a copy or notice of the protest must accompany notice of the dishonor of a foreign bill.

Thirdly, as to the place at which notice is to be given.

A notice of dishonor should regularly be sent to the place of business or to the residence of the party for whom it is designed.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> Housego v. Cowne, 2 M. & W., 348.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup> Muilman v. D'Eguino, 2 H. Bl., 565.

<sup>3</sup> It has been held in America that notice put into the post-office, if the parties live in different places, is good. It is otherwise when the parties reside in the same town Bussard v. Levering, 6 Wheat. (U.S.), 102; Munn v. Baldwin, 6 Mass., 316; Stanto v. Blossom, 14 Mass., 116; Crisson v. Williamson, 1 A. K. Mar. (Ky.), 456: Foster v. McDonald, 5 Ala., 376; Warren v. Gilman, 17 Me., 360; Lord v. Appleton, 15 Me., 270; Gindrat v. Mechanics' Bank, 7 Ala., 324; Ellis v. Comm. Bank, 7 How. (Miss.), 294; Lindenberger v. Beall, 6 Wheat. (U.S.), 104; Fish v. Jackman, 19 Me., 467; Weakly v. Bell, 9 Watts (Penn.), 273; Jones v. Lewis, 8 W. & S. (Penn.), 14; Hazleton Coal Co. v. Ryerson, 1 Spencer (N. Y.), 129; Wilson v. Senier, 14 Wis., 380; Woods v. Neild, 44 Penn. St., 86. When the indorser adds his address to the signature, notice mailed to him by that address is sufficient; Baker v. Morris, 25 Barb. (N. Y.), 158; Davis v. Bank of Tenn. 4 Sneed, (Tenn.), 390. Notice to an indorser sent by mail to his place of business in another city, when he resides in the very place where the note is protested, is not sufficient: Van Vechten v. Pruyn, 13 N. Y., 549. Notice by mail is not sufficient when the parties reside in the same town: Green v. Darling, 15 Me., 143; Bailey v. Bank of Missouri, 7 Mo., 467; Kramer v. McDowell, 8 W. & S. (Penn.), 138; Ireland v. Kip, 10 John. (N. Y.), 490; Stephenson r. Primrose, 8 Port. (Ala.), 155; Curtis v. State Bank, 6 Blackf. (Ind.), 312; Davis v. Gowen, 1 App., 447; Pierce v. Pendar, 5 Met. (Mass.), 352; Brindley v. Barr, 3 Harrington 419; Patrick v. Beasly, 6 How. (Miss.), 609; Wilcox v. McNutt, 2 Id., 777; Timms v. Delisle, 5 Blackf. (Ind.), 447; Curtis v. State Bank, 6 Id., 312; Ransom v. Mack, 2 Hill (N. Y.), 587; Hogatt v. Bingaman, 7 How. (Miss.), 565; Manchester Bank v. Fellows, 32 N. H., 302; Costin v. Rankin, 3 Jones (N. C.), 387; Vance v. Collins, 6 Cal., 435; Davis v. Bank of Tennessee, 4 Sneed (Tenn.), 390; Bowling v. Arthur, 34 Miss., 41; Power v. Mitchell, 7 Wis., 161; Nevins v. Bank, 10 Mich., 547; see Walters v. Brown, 15 Md., 285. Notice to an indorser may well be sent through the post-office when the place of protest and the residence of the indorser are in the same city, when the latter is yet ten miles distant, and there is a

\*If a party whose name is on a bill direct a notice to be sent to him when absent at a distance from his residence so that its transmission thither and thence to the prior parties will occupy more time than if the notice had passed through the ordinary place of residence, a notice to him at the substituted and more distant place will it seems not only be a good notice as against him, but also a good notice as against prior parties.<sup>1</sup>

A message sent to a counting-house within the usual hours of business has been held sufficient, though no person be in attendance. Thus where the holder sent to a counting-house, and the messenger knocked on the outer door on two successive days, making noise sufficient to be heard by persons within, Lord Ellenborough said," "The counting-house is a place where all appointments respecting the business, and all notices, should be addressed; and it is the duty of the merchant to take care that the proper person be in attendance. It has, however, been argued that notice in writing left at the counting-house or put into the post was necessary, but the law does not require it, and with whom was it to be left? Putting a

post-office there at which it is not suggested that the indorser does not usually receive his letters: Paton v. Lent, 4 Duer, 331; Bonduraut v. Everett, 1 Met. (Mass.). 618; Barret v. Evans, 28 Mo., 331. Though the first indorser lives in the same town with the maker; yet a notice to him through the post-office from a second indorser living in another town is good: True r. Collins, 3 Allen (Mass.), 438. It is not that the indorser resides in same town where the protest is made which entitles him to personal notice, but that he resides in the same place with the person who gives the notice: West River Bank v. Taylor, 7 Bos. (N. Y.), 466. Where a person has a dwelling-house and counting-room in the same town, a notice sent to either place is sufficient: Bank of Columbia v. Lawrence, 1 Pet. (U.S.), 578. The postmark on a letter is not evidence, per se, that the letter was deposited in the postoffice on the day indicated by it; but its genuineness being proved it is prima facie evidence to fix the liability of a drawer of a protested bill of the time when the notice was mailed: Crawford v. Branch Bank, 7 Ala., 205; Early v. Preston, 1 P. & H. (Va.), 228. The holder of a bill or note has a right to adopt a private conveyance instead of the mail for the receipt and transmission of notice to a drawer or indorser of the dishonor thereof, but in such case it is incumbent on the holder to show that due diligence was used: Jarvis v. St. Croix, Mfg. Co., 22 Mc., 287.

If a party receive notice of the dishonor of a bill in due time, he cannot object to the mode of conveyance: Whiteford v. Burckmeyer, 1 Gill. (N. Y.), 127; Bank of U. S. v. Corcoran, 2 Pet. (U. S.), 121; Hyslop v. Jones, 3 McLean (U. S. C. C.), 96; Foster v. Sineath, 2 Rich. (S. C.), 338; Bradley v. Davis, 26 Me., 45; Manchester Bank v. Fellows, 32 N. H., 302; Grinman v. Walker, 9 Iowa, 426.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> Shelton v. Braithwaite, 8 M. & W., 252.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup> But this case was decided before Solarte v. Palmer, and when the form of pleading made it unnecessary to distinguish between actual notice and a dispensation with notice.

letter into the post is only one mode of giving notice; but, where both parties are residing in the same town, sending a clerk is a more regular and less exceptionable mode." But the mere act of going and knocking at the door will not sustain an allegation of actual notice, though it may enlarge the time necessary for giving it, or under some circumstances be evidence of a dispensation. A message left at the dwelling-house of a private person with his wife has been held sufficient.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> Gross v. Smith, 1 M. & S., 545; Goldsmith v. Bland, Chit., 10th ed., 319; Bayley, 6th ed., 276; Bancroft v. Hall, Holt's N. P. C., 476.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup> Allen r. Edmundson, 2 Exch., 719.

<sup>3</sup> Housego v. Cowne, 2 M. & W., 348. Notice addressed to the post-office of the town where the indorser resides is sufficient: Bank of Manchester v. Slason, 13 Vt., 334; Carson v. State Bank, 4 Ala., 148; Draper v. Clemens, 4 Mo., 52; Glasscock r. Bank of Mo., 8 Id., 443; Crawford v. Branch Bank at Mobile, 7 Ala., 305; Dunlap r. Thompson, 5 Yerger (Tenn.), 67; Rand v. Reynolds, 2 Gratt. (Va.), 171; Union Bank of Louisiana v. Stoker, 1 La. Ann., 269; Seneca Co. Bank v. Neass, 5 Den. (N. Y.) 329. Where a notice is sent to the post-office from which an indorser will get a notice soonest, it is sufficient, though it is not the nearest office in point of distance: Bank v. Lane, 3 Hawks. (N. C.), 453; Farmers' Bank v. Battle, 4 Humph. (Tenn.), 86; Sherman v. Clark, 3 McLean (U. S. C. C.), 91; Mercer v. Lancaster, 5 Penn. St., 160; Walker v. Bank, 3 Kelly, 486; Hunt v. Fish, 4 Barb. (N. Y.), 324. Where the holder of a negotiable security knows the residence of the indorser, but does not know the post-office nearest thereto, notice of protest directed to the post-office, which after diligent inquiry is supposed to be nearest, will bind the indorser: Marsh v. Barr, 1 Meigs (Tenn.), 68. It is not sufficient to look for the drawer at the place where the bill is drawn in order to give him notice; Reasonable diligence should be used to ascertain his residence: Fisher v. Evans, 5 Binn. (Penn.), 542; Blakely v. Grant, 6 Mass., 386; Branch Bank v. Pierce, 3 Ala., 321; Barnwell v. Mitchell, 3 Conn., 101; Carroll v. Upton, 3 N. Y., 272; Hill v. Varrell, 3 Me., 233; Lowery v. Scott. 24 Wend. (N. Y.), 358; Foard v. Johnson, 2 Ala., 565; see Denny v. Palmer, 5 Ired. (N. C.), 610; Page v. Prentice, 5 B. Mon. (Ky.), 7. Where a notary, on the non-payment of a bill, left a notice for the indorser at his boarding-house with his fellow-boarder, requesting him to deliver it to the indorser, who was not within at the time, the notice was held sufficient: Bank of the United States v. Hatch, 6 Pet. (U.S.), 250; Miles v. Hall, 12 S. & M. (Miss.), 332. How notice to be served when the inderser boards at a hotel: Ashley r. Guntor, 15 Ark., 415. A notice of non-payment sent to the indorser inclosed under seal and delivered by the messenger to one in the employment of the indorser, with directions not to open it, is sufficient. The sufficiency of a notice sent by a third person depends on what the messenger did, not on what he was instructed to do by the holder of the note, on the message that was delivered, not on that which was sent: Payne v. Esdell, 19 Penn. St., 178. Notice may be left at the indorser's dwelling or his place of business: Sanderson v. Reinstader, 31 Mo., 483; Grinman v. Walker, 9 Iowa, 426; Nevius v. Bank, 10 Mich., 547. Notice must be left at the indorser's place of business, not merely in the building in which he does his business: Klienman v. Boerstein, 32 Mo., 311. Service of notice within the usual business hours, and at the usual place of business of the inderser, or in

Fourthly, as to the time when notice of dishonor should be given. The general rule is that the notice must be given before action brought within a reasonable time after the dishonor; and that what is a reasonable time is a question of law, depending on the facts of each particular case. Accordingly, the due interval within which notice may or \*must be given, in a variety of conjunctures, has been defined by the decisions.

Where the holder and the party to whom notice is addressed live at different places, it is sufficient to send off notice on the day next after the day of dishonor. "It is," says Abbott, C. J., "of the greatest importance to commerce that some plain and precise rule should be laid down to guide persons in all cases as to the time within which notice of the dishonor of bills must be given. That time I have always understood to be the departure of the post on the day following that in which the party receives intelligence of the dishonor. If, instead of that rule, we are to say that the party must give notice by the next practical post, we should raise in many cases difficult questions of fact, and should, according to the different local situations of parties, give them more or less facility in complying with the rule. But no dispute can arise from adopting the rule which I have stated.<sup>2</sup>

his absence on a person there, but not proven to be in any way connected with him, is sufficient: Mechanics' Banking Assn. v. Place, 4 Duer (N. Y.), 212. Service of notice at the place of business must be during business hours, but service at the residence may be at any reasonable hour: Adams v. Wright, 14 Wis., 408.

As to where notice should be given or directed, see Kock v. Bringier, 19 La. Ann., 183; Greves v. Tomlinson, Id., 90; Bliss v. Nichols, 12 Allen (Mass.), 443; Coffman v. Bank of Kentucky, 41 Miss., 212; Bayly's Adm'r v. Chubb, 16 Gratt. (Va.), 284. Matthewson v. Strafford Bank, 45 N. H., 104; Suilivan v. Godwin, 20 La. Ann., 23; Merz v. Kaiser, Id., 377; Aiken v. Marine Bank, 16 Wis., 679; Ward v. Perrin, 54 Barb. (N. Y.), 89; Peters v. Hobbs, 25 Ark., 67; Williams v. Brailsford, 25 Md., 126; Spragne v Tyson, 44 Ala., 338; Jameny v. Bank, 9 Heisk. (Tenn.), 493,

<sup>1</sup> Darbishire v. Parker, 6 East, 3; 2 Smith, 195, 8. c.; Gladwell v. Turner, L. R., 5 Ex., 59; 39 L. J., 31.

Williams r. Smith, 2 B. & Ald., 496. Notice of non-acceptance or non-payment must be given in a reasonable time, in order to charge the drawer or indorser. Though in some cases the question of what is reasonable notice has been left to the jury to decide, yet the vast current of American cases hold with remarkable unanimity that it is a matter of law for the determination of the court exclusively: Phillips v. M'Curdy, 1 H. & J. (Md.). 187; United States v. Barker, Paine (U. S. C. C.), 156; 12 Wheat. (U. S.), 559; Stanto v. Blossom, 14 Mass., 116; Mallory v. Kirwan, 2 Dal. (U. S.), 192; Warder v. Carson's Ex., Id., 233; Steinmetz v. Curry, 1 Dall. 235; Bank of North America v. M'Knight, 1 Yeates 'Penn.), 147; Denniston v. Imbrie, 3 Wash. (U. S. C. C.), 396; London v. Haward, 2 Hayw. (N. C.), 332; Scarborough v.